---
title: Market Square Fire, Tuesday 2 March.
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_40913
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_40913/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_40913
date: '1915-03-10'
date_display: null
volume: XXII
issue_number: '1935'
page: '1'
article_type: news
issue_reference: XXII, 1935, 10 Mar. 1915, page 1
people_mentioned:
- Thomas A. Harrap
- Mr Harrap
- Walker & Sons
- J. Allen
- G. Lord
- Mr A. Walker
- Pederson & Sons
- Mr W. Truscott
- Mr E.J. Harris
- M-C Queale
- Burra Football Association
- Kooringa Football Club
- E.W. Crewes
- John Allen
- A.D. McLaren
- Walter T. Truscott
- A.L. Walker
- The Mayor
- Mr Day
places_mentioned:
- Market Square
- Kooringa
- Dalgety’s Corner
- Burra
topics:
- fire
- inquest
- arson
- insurance
- fire brigade
- community safety
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Market Square Fire, Tuesday 2 March.

About 11.30 p.m. fire destroyed the row of old buildings on the south side of Market Square owned by Walker & Sons.  When the alarm was sounded by Mr Harrap all aid was given, but without a proper appliance the position was hopeless.  The fire seems to have started in J. Allen’s office.  G. Lord, who was one of the first on the scene, almost put out the fire in the front room with a fire extinguisher before the machine was exhausted, but the fire in the back room continued.  Mr A, Walker tried another extinguisher with similar success.  The fight continued with buckets, but this was inadequate and the attention had to be focused on saving Pederson & Sons’ boot shop at one end and Harrap’s pie shop at the other.  The fire ran quickly along the old paling roof under the iron and was impossible to control without appliances.  Pederson’s was saved by its high parapet wall and a 60’ hose was able to keep the fire from more than scorching the verandah and slightly damaging the wall.

Next to Mr Allen’s office on the other side was Walker and Sons with a stock of crockery, tinware and linoleums etc.  This was practically all destroyed.  Then came Mr Harrap’s private residence.  This could not be saved so all the furniture was removed.  Fortunately this was done with little damage, as it was uninsured.  Across the 12’ right of way was the pie shop and had this caught fire it would have been impossible to save Mr W. Truscott’s butcher shop or Mr E.J. Harris’s shop.  Wet bags on the roof and a hose kept the flames at bay.  The crowd of workers did an excellent job despite clouds of smoke attacking those on the pie shop roof.  M-C Queale supervised operations effectively.  Mr Allen’s office contents were insured for £30.  Also lost in it were records, guernseys etc. of the Burra Football Association and the Kooringa Football Club.

The buildings were insured for £500 and Walker & Sons’ stock for £300.

On Wednesday evening the fire started again at the rear of Mr Harrap’s residence, but was soon controlled.

There have of late been several attempts to start fires in the town:

27 Sep. 1914: at the rear of the same row

2 Oct. 1914: an attempt to burn F. Harrap’s place

26 Oct. 1914: an attempt to burn A.D. McLaren’s shop

29 Nov. 1914: another attempt to burn the buildings destroyed last week

an attempt to set fire to Clark’s Commercial Hotel which did no damage

an attempt to set fire to Mr Pizzo’s house which had been partially destroyed by a fire of known cause.

This makes clear the necessity of forming a fire brigade in the town.  Had the fire occurred on the other side of the square with a favourable wind the damage could have been enormous.

Market Square Fire Inquest, 4 March with E.W. Crewes as coroner and a jury.

Thomas A. Harrap: refreshment-room proprietor, Kooringa.

11.30 p.m., Tuesday 2 March, was undressing for bed when smelt paper burning.  Saw a large volume of smoke in the front street.  Went out the back and saw rear of J. Allen’s in flames.  No hope of putting it out and raised the alarm.  The fire seemed to be right at J. Allen’s back door.  The wooden place at the back of my house was not burned, though the ceiling was charred.  Cannot understand its escaping. Heard no one about Tuesday night.

[There is then evidence that he and Mr Walker had talked on Wednesday about burning down this wooden room, but the matter is more clearly put in Walker’s evidence.]

John Allen:

Was in the front room of the office that night with A.D. McLaren c. 9.05 p.m. and used a kerosene lamp.  We left after 10 minutes and extinguished the lamp.  Passed the office c. 11.05 p.m. and saw no sign of fire.  Office contents were insured for £30.  It would have been possible for someone to get through the shed and through the window into my office.  No idea of how the fire started.  There was a drum of paint oil in the storeroom, half a tin of kerosene and ⅓ bottle of benzine.  The floors in the front room were brick and in the two back rooms were dirt.  There was no matting.

A.D. McLaren corroborated the first part of Mr Allen’s evidence.

Walter T. Truscott:

He gave evidence of the small fire that broke out the following night at the rear of Harrap’s previous dwelling among some straw envelopes in a shed there.  He also gave evidence of the night of the main fire, but added little to the above.

A.L. Walker, storekeeper:

Hear the alarm c. 11.30 p.m.  When I got to Dalgety’s Corner the fire was coming out of Allen’s office.  Took a fire extinguisher from our drapery store to the fire.  I put out the flames in the front rooms, but did not notice the flames in the back room.  Before more water could be got the fire burst out again.  Went to the adjoining shop.  There was then no sign of fire there.  Opened the back door to unlock the gate and filled a bucket with water in case fire should break out at the back.  Went into the street and closed the doors.  10 minutes later re-entered our shop and found flames coming along the ceiling in the back room.  Premises were insured for £500 and the stock for £300.  Our financial position is good.  On Wednesday night when the second fire occurred I was with M-C Queale from 6.30 p.m. to 9.00 p.m. and from 9.00 to 11.00 p.m. at my home with Mr Day.  Could not replace my stock for under £500.  There is no trace of fire at Allen’s back door.  Thought the fire must have originated in the front of Allen’s.  Was in the room at the back of Harrap’s between 7 and 8 Wednesday.  Mr Crewes and Harrap and some boys were there.  Harrap showed where the ceiling had been burnt a little.  He put a match to the ceiling and suggested he should burn it down.  I told him to stop.  He said it would be better burnt because it might catch fire in the night and ignite the buildings across the lane.  I said it would cost us the insurance to do so.  He said it would clean the whole place up.  I said he was a fool to do so.  When M-C Queale sent for me at 10 o’clock there had been a fire in Harrap’s yard in the outhouse and against the washhouse.

M-C Queale:

Heard the alarm at 11.30 p.m. on 2 March and saw Allen’s place alight.  The ridgepole was then burning.  Tried to save Pederson’s boot shop and Truscott’s.  Stayed all night watching the fire and then put on another man.  Was watching again the next night as there was still some stuff smouldering at the front.  Spent 10 minutes in Truscott’s and went home, returning c. 10.15 and saw people running in the lane next to Harrap’s.  Found Truscott throwing water on boxes of straw and straw envelopes and noticed smoke coming from the outhouse.  Paper was burning on the seat.  There was no doubt an attempt had been made to cause another fire.  There was no sign of fire between 6 and 9.45 p.m.  On Wednesday afternoon visited the room behind Harrap’s and some paper had been burnt on top of a modern dresser and the calico ceiling had been burnt.  Don’t see any connection between the burnt paper and the big fire.  It seems a deliberate attempt to burn the room down.  Allen’s back door looked as though it had been pulled out.  The shed was not scorched.  On Wednesday morning there was no sign of fire in Harrap’s back room.  Don’t recall any burnt hessian in the ceiling Wednesday afternoon, but there was some in the evening.  On two other occasions there have been attempts to burn these premises.  Got a black-tracker up, but there was insufficient evidence for an arrest.

Harrap was recalled:

Saw fire at the back of Allen’s first.  Could not understand how the shed was not burned.  On the second attempt I did not say that it was a pity the whole place was not burnt down as I might have got a new shop and bakehouse.

The Mayor summed up.  He thought the evidence was clear that the fire started in the front part of Mr Allen’s office; that it spread from there to the next building occupied by Walker and Sons.  There had been a deliberate attempt to complete the destruction the next day, but there was no evidence to say by whom.

The jury came to the same conclusion.

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
