---
title: Editorial on the New Oval.
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_23963
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_23963/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_23963
date: '1909-05-05'
date_display: null
volume: VX
issue_number: '851'
page: '2'
article_type: other
issue_reference: VX, 851, 5 May 1909, Page 2
people_mentioned:
- Thomas Sandland
- the Syndicate
- the show committee
- councillors
places_mentioned:
- Aberdeen Polo Grounds
- Kooringa
- Victoria Park
- the Institute
topics:
- sports
- showground
- trust
- land
- community
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Editorial on the New Oval.

It had been the fear of some that the object of the syndicate that purchased the Aberdeen Polo Grounds some time ago was against Kooringa and to abolish Victoria Park.  Consequently their enterprise was condemned.  In fact the object is not a moneymaking enterprise, but to give the town a site for show and sports purposes.  The issue was thrashed out at a meeting at the Institute on Friday when Thomas Sandland, one of the Syndicate, which is now a trust, explained what the trust intended to do.  The show committee has decided to move to the new ground and although the surroundings are not all that could be desired, a good foundation has been laid for future improvements.

Victoria Park has never served its purpose very well and it may now become even more of a white elephant.  Having created an enclosure costing some £600 it would be thought it would be eternally useful, but in fact has proved unsuitable from the outset.  It was soon seen that if much was spent on it to effect improvements, the returns would be inadequate.  It is now too small for the needs of the show.  Councillors do not believe money spent there is well invested; consequently four or five townsmen have acted in a practical way and bought the best possible piece of ground.

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
