---
title: Soldiers’ Aid Soc. 4th AGM
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_60895
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_60895/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_60895
date: '1919-07-16'
date_display: null
volume: XXXXI
issue_number: '28'
page: '4'
article_type: news
issue_reference: XXXXI, 28, 16 July 1919, page 4
people_mentioned:
- Mesdames Thamm & Hilditch
- Mr I.J. Warnes
- T. Pearce & Sons
- G. Gallagher
- James Reed
- Mrs E. Bertram
- Mrs C. Fuss
- Mrs C. Bartholomaeus
- Miss Clara Bartholomaeus
- Mrs A. Wallis
- Mr C. Fuss
- Boy Scouts
places_mentioned:
- Sheep Dog Trials
- Show
- Jubilee Hall Bazaar
- RSL Room
- Soldiers’ Hostel
topics:
- fundraising
- charity
- donations
- Red Cross
- YMCA
- community
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Soldiers’ Aid Soc. 4th AGM

This coming year there will be no general appeal for funds, but rather energies will be devoted to care of the sick and wounded in hospitals – a need which will be long term.

Meetings in the past year had from 20 to 50 attending with an average c. 25.

At the last AGM Mesdames Thamm & Hilditch presented a crocheted quilt, which brought in c. £50 at auction on the bugler system.

In September the luncheon at the Sheep Dog Trials raised £43-8-6, which we gave to Red Cross.

At the Show we provided luncheon and afternoon tea and, together with the sale of a bullock donated to us by Mr I.J. Warnes, we raised £140-12-5.

The next fundraiser was the Jubilee Hall Bazaar in December, which raised £52-10-3.

Sheep farmers have donated wool: T. Pearce & Sons £11-13-9, G. Gallagher £3-19-10, James Reed £22-19-11 and some money is still to come in on two of these accounts.

The major disbursement was 100 Christmas boxes, £5 to the Salvation army, £25 to French Red Cross, £20 to Australia Day, £20 to Red Cross Produce Depot, a table for the RSL Room, 2 beds to Soldiers’ Hostel, £36-16-0 to Red Cross, £100 to YMCA (just after last year’s balance sheet) & £25 this year.

The Boy Scouts have helped us on many occasions.

Elected were

President	Mrs E. Bertram

Vice-Presidents	Mrs C. Fuss & Mrs C. Bartholomaeus

Secretary	Miss Clara Bartholomaeus

Treasurer	Mrs A. Wallis

Auditor		Mr C. Fuss

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
