---
title: "Subscribed and collected\t£13,890-19-4"
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_43601
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_43601/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_43601
date: '1915-10-20'
date_display: null
volume: XXII
issue_number: '1970'
page: 2-3
article_type: news
issue_reference: XXII, 1970, 1915-10-20, page 2-3
people_mentioned:
- Mr J.M. McBride
- Mr E.J. Davey
- Mrs J.H. Nield
- Lady Galway
- W.G. Hawkes
- W.J. Sowden
- Mrs McLaren
- Governor
places_mentioned:
- Burra
- Adelaide
- Boy Scouts
- old mine
- Institute
topics:
- fundraising
- patriotic
- war
- community
- concert
- cheer-up society
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Subscribed and collected	£13,890-19-4

Patriotic Fund Cash	£301

Belgian Fund Cash	£1,156-15-3

Clothing		£100

Commercial Travellers’ Day	£279

Red Cross Cash	£324

Clothing		£122

Burra Cheer-up Society

Violet Day	£414

Cash	£96

Blanket Fund	£250

Soldiers’ Aid Society

Cash	£94

Clothing	£210

Australia Day	£2,100

French Flag Day	£608

Soldiers’ Memorial	£50

Cheer-up Day (Estimated)	£750

Cash Direct to City Funds	£7,036

He especially acknowledged the huge proportion of this given by Mr J.M. McBride.

The Town Clerk, Mr E.J. Davey then read the beautifully Morocco-bound illuminated address to the Governor and Lady Galway.  His Excellency responded.

Mrs J.H. Nield presented Lady Galway with a tinted photograph of the bunch of violets that sold for £381 on Violet Day.  Lady Galway responded.

W.G. Hawkes then spoke followed by W.J. Sowden as President of the Cheer-up Society, Adelaide.

The Governor’s party then visited the old mine and inspected the Boy Scouts before lunch.

Lunch was taken in a tent erected for the occasion. And was organised by Mrs McLaren.

After lunch the Governor delivered a stirring address.

In the evening there was a concert at the Institute with more patriotic speeches between the items.  Mr Sowden hoped the fine cavalcade of Cheer-up Girls would be in Adelaide for the opening of the Cheer-up Hut on 6 November.  He believed Burra’s contribution to the war effort which amounted to c. £8 a head of population was the finest in Australia.  Details of the sum raised are then given and the total turned out to be over £800.

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
