---
title: Burra Cheer-up Soc.
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_56281
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_56281/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_56281
date: '1918-07-31'
date_display: null
volume: XXXX
issue_number: '30'
page: '3'
article_type: news
issue_reference: XXXX, 30, 31 July 1918, page 3
people_mentioned:
- Pte Cyril Stewart
- Major H.J. Copley
- Two of his brothers
places_mentioned:
- Germany
- France
- Gallipoli
- Armentieres
- Messines
- the Somme
- Pozieres
- Ypres
- Fleurs
- Cambrai
- Stettin
- Altdann
- Holland
- Mannaheim
topics:
- war
- POW
- repatriation
- community
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Burra Cheer-up Soc.

Pte Cyril Stewart was welcomed home at a social on Monday after 14 months as a POW in Germany.

Major H.J. Copley writes from France of heroic deeds on the front.

Pte Cyril Stewart recounts his war experiences.  He left for the front on 31 May 1915 and was 12 weeks on Gallipoli when he was taken ill, spent three months in hospital, returned to Gallipoli and then stayed till evacuation.  He then went to France and fought at Armentieres, Messines, the Somme, Pozieres & Ypres.   He was wounded on 5 November 1916 at Fleurs and spent 48 hours nearly up to his neck in mud before being rescued by the Germans and taken to Cambrai, where he was operated on without anaesthetic for the removal of a bone in the elbow.  He later had two similar operations.  He was then sent to Stettin where three further operations were needed, also without anaesthetic.  His food was mainly mangolds and swedes.  There was a final operation at Altdann.  Red Cross parcels were then getting through and after three months he went to a camp where there were 80,000 prisoners, mainly Russians, but about 500 British & Australians as well.  The prisoners had to work in the fields or the coal mines.  Attempts to escape always failed because they were about 350 miles from Holland.  Finally he was moved to Mannaheim and on 28 December 1917 was included in a prisoner exchange.  Two of his brothers also enlisted.  One was invalided home some time ago and the other is still at the front.

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
