---
title: Australia Day in Burra, 1 September 1917
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_51563
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_51563/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_51563
date: '1917-09-05'
date_display: null
volume: XXXIX
issue_number: '36'
page: '3'
article_type: news
issue_reference: XXXIX, 36, 5 Sep. 1917, page 3
people_mentioned:
- Admiral Toovey
- Lt-Col. Beevor
- R. Fuss
- C. Burns
- E. Isaac
- J.M. McBride
- Mr McBride
- Mr & Mrs C.J. Pearce
- Scout Patrol-Leader Tiddy
- Mr Frank Harris
- Miss Hilda Hunt
- George Thorpe
- Messrs Glenister & Sams
- P. Pederson
places_mentioned:
- Burra
- Market Square
- Fuss’s corner
- Aberdeen
- Copperhouse
- Leighton
topics:
- events
- parade
- fundraising
- Australia Day
- community
- honour roll
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Australia Day in Burra, 1 September 1917.

The approximate takings were £1,851.  By 11 a.m. the sun was out.  Market Square was decorated and the procession was assembled to depart from Fuss’s corner in Aberdeen.  The Cheer-up Ladies’ band was followed by ‘Admiral Toovey’, the Mayor & Lt-Col. Beevor.  Then the mice plague was caricatured by a ‘fou fou’ band playing weird tunes and a group of fantastically costumed small boys.  Then came the Aberdeen Girls’ Concert Party on Robertson’s motor lorry, embowered in Wattle Blossom.  Messrs R. Fuss, C. Burns & E. Isaac rode on a ‘Joe Frord 1801’: a vehicle with a horse pushing from behind.  [Was R. Fuss, Russell Fuss?]  They were followed by ‘Mike, a broken down sport’ and his girl, before a concert party of Pierrots and Pierrettes, Hann’s Piccaninny Fairies, some Red Indians, tiny tots dressed as Red Cross Nurses, the Basket Ball Club by Burra School children and Leighton School children.  Copperhouse School children produced a Japanese rickshaw.  Then came the whole Dam family in a car with a trailer, George Thorpe with a decorated 6-cylinder Buick.  Very impressive was a car rigged up as a tank, which belched fire and smoke and had been made by Messrs Glenister & Sams and P. Pederson.  Then came the Burra Boys Scouts Band and decorated cars and traps.

A gold button was auctioned on the Bugler system for £978, ending up with J.M. McBride for £225.  Buttons of various designs were sold, including one with a portrait of Mr McBride.  There was a souvenir stall and a Cheap Jack stall.  There were guessing competitions, concerts parties and various other stalls.  In the ugliest man competition, Mr Frank Harris was elected, while Miss Hilda Hunt was Most Silent Lady.  The Fun Parlour with distorting mirrors was popular.

The Honour Roll of fallen heroes was unveiled on Australia Day.  It had been presented by Mr & Mrs C.J. Pearce.  The Mayor introduced Lt-Col. Beevor to unveil the roll.  After his speech Scout Patrol-Leader Tiddy sounded The Last Post.  The board is in blackwood with a deeply recessed, moulded arched pediment.  There are 36 names in gold on a dark blue ground.

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
