---
title: Burra District Council
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_27113
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_27113/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_27113
date: '1910-06-24'
date_display: null
volume: XLVI
issue_number: 3,556
page: '6'
article_type: news
issue_reference: No. 3,556, Vol. XLVI, 24 June 1910, page 6
people_mentioned:
- Mr William Davey
- Mr Fed Whitney
- Rev. W.H. Rofe
- Rev. J. Williams
- Mr S. Burns
- Rev. H.C. Farley
- Rev. T. Weatherill
places_mentioned:
- Burra
- Burra Mine
- Burra Institute
- Burra Creek
- Redruth Methodist Church
- Auburn
- Queensland
- Kooringa
topics:
- local government
- resignation
- employment
- community
- entertainment
- retirement
- church
- lighting
- public meeting
- law and order
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Burra District Council

Mr William Davey, District Clerk, has resigned on account of advancing age.  He is one of the oldest residents and was employed as a clerk in the Burra Mine.  He was afterwards for many years caretaker of the Institute and then Town Clerk before taking on the clerkship of the District Council.

Applications are called for the position of District Clerk.

Larrikinism.  There are individuals lurking around corners at night, frightening girls and women.

The Heller Entertainers performed on two nights at the Burra Institute before good houses.  The show was one of the best seen for some time.

Mr Fed Whitney, an old and popular railway guard was given a purse of sovereigns by friends last week on the occasion of his retirement.  He ran the first train north from Burra and conducted the last train that crossed the old wooden bridge over the Burra Creek before it was demolished.

Redruth Methodist Church held anniversary services on 5 June.

Morning and evening services were conducted by Rev. W.H. Rofe of Auburn and the afternoon service by Rev. J. Williams, an old Burra boy, now a resident of Queensland.

Many people commented on the improved lighting since the installation of acetylene gas lights.  The Mayor of Burra, Mr S. Burns presided at the public meeting on Monday when Rev. Rofe gave an inspiring address.  Rev. H.C. Farley of Kooringa and the circuit minister Rev. T. Weatherill also spoke.

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
