---
title: Obituary.  Mr William West JP died at ‘Kennington’, Burra on 18 September.
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_48061
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_48061/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_48061
date: '1916-09-27'
date_display: null
volume: XXXVIII
issue_number: '39'
page: '2'
article_type: obituary
issue_reference: XXXVIII, 39, 27 Sep. 1916, page 2
people_mentioned:
- Mr William West JP
- Joshua West
- Mr Furniss
- Captain Saunders [Sanders]
- Sit Henry Ayers
- Mrs R.A. Cilento
- Mrs G.B. Fairhead
- Miss West
- Mr W.C.L. West
- Mr Alfred West
- Mr H.E. West
- Mr J.J. West
- Frank West
places_mentioned:
- Kennington
- Burra
- London
- Kennington in Surrey
- Pt Adelaide
- Melbourne
- SA
- Wallaroo
- Roseworthy
- Keswick
- France
- Hawthorn
- Gawler
- Sydney
- Evandale
- Largs Bay
- Kent Town
- WA
topics:
- death
- biography
- local history
- education
- mining
- civic service
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Obituary.  Mr William West JP died at ‘Kennington’, Burra on 18 September.  He was the 2nd son of Joshua West, who was connected with the firm of Coutts & Co., Bankers of London.  He was born at Kennington in Surrey 21 November 1836.  He and his brother arrived at Pt Adelaide on the Orient 23 September 1857.  He came to Burra and worked for a few months in the Mine before entering into business for 2-3 years.  He then went to Melbourne, returning to SA in 1862 and living at Wallaroo before returning to Burra.  He ran a school under the Council of Education, at which he was highly successful.  Ill health forced him to give up teaching and in 1873 he became purser’s clerk for SAMA under Mr Furniss.  On the latter’s retirement in 1874, West became purser and manager of the Association’s estate.  Captain Saunders [Sanders] having control of the mining.  He resided at the mine for 46 years and only recently moved to ‘Kennington’.  He was associated with Sit Henry Ayers till the latter’s death in 1897.  West then became Secretary and General Manager.  Illness forced him to relinquish the secretarial post, but he remained General Manager until the Association was wound up.  He was Mayor of Burra in 1891 & 1892.  In 1885 he was elected Councillor for West Ward.  He worked hard to get the railway extended from Roseworthy to Burra and was for some years Chairman of the Burra School Board of Advice.  He was connected with the Burra Institute and various sporting clubs and assisted in the resuscitation of the Show Society some 20 years ago.  He was a prominent Freemason, a Past Master of the Kooringa Lodge SAC and senior subscribing member and Past Master of the Loyal Aberdeen Lodge MUIOOF, being connected with it for some 56 years.  He was a lover of art and music and a fair artist in oils and watercolour and also interested in mineralogy, conchology and taxidermy.

He was twice married.  Members of his first family are:

Mrs R.A. Cilento (Hawthorn), Mrs G.B. Fairhead (Gawler), Miss West (Sydney), Mr W.C.L. West (Evandale), Mr Alfred West (Largs Bay), Mr H.E. West (Kent Town), Mr J.J. West (WA).

From the second marriage he leaves three sons and four daughters.

The eldest son is presently in the AMC at Keswick and the second son, Frank West, is at the front in France.

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
