---
title: Obituary.  Lieut. Eric Mervyn Roach
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_56503
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_56503/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_56503
date: '1918-08-28'
date_display: null
volume: XXXX
issue_number: '34'
page: '3'
article_type: obituary
issue_reference: XXXX, 34, 28 Aug. 1918, page 3
people_mentioned:
- Eric Mervyn Roach
- Mr & Mrs H. Roach
- Keith
- Jack
- Staff Nurse Dorothy Roach
places_mentioned:
- Aberdeen
- Burra
- Prince Alfred College
- France
- Pozieres
- Egypt
- Medindie
- Broken Hill NSW
topics:
- war
- service
- obituary
- biography
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Obituary.  Lieut. Eric Mervyn Roach was the 3rd son of Mr & Mrs H. Roach of Aberdeen and was born in 1891 and educated at private and public schools in Burra and later at Prince Alfred College, after which he took up electrical engineering.  When war broke out he was home convalescing from a severe illness.  He enlisted in the 1st contingent from Burra as a member of the original 10th Battalion in the machine gun section and sailed on 20 October 1914, taking part in the Gallipoli landing where he was wounded in the shoulder and neck.  After three weeks on a hospital ship he returned to Gallipoli for six months.  In April 1916 he went to France and saw action at Pozieres etc.  After 12 months he was chosen when a L-Cpl as the first of nine Australians to do a four-month course at Bisley Cadet School for machine gunners and was commissioned in July 1917.  He received his second star in February 1918, backdated to November 1917.  Last March he took up a position as anti-aircraft officer, but preferring the front line to giving lectures he returned to his company a month later and was there until he fell on 10 August.  Two brothers, Keith and Jack, are on active service in France.  His sister, Staff Nurse Dorothy Roach, is in Egypt.

[Born 24 March 1891 Medindie: died 10 August 1918 France, residence Broken Hill NSW.]

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
