---
title: W.H. Hardy seems to have had a hard time running from ward to ward
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_18529
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_18529/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_18529
date: '1906-11-28'
date_display: null
volume: VX
issue_number: '749'
page: '2'
article_type: news
issue_reference: VX, 749, 28 Nov. 1906, page 2
people_mentioned:
- W.H. Hardy
- Cr Snell
- J. Walker
- Mr Ockenden
- john Wise
places_mentioned:
- North Ward
- East Ward
- West Ward
- Council
- town
topics:
- municipal politics
- elections
- controversy
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

W.H. Hardy seems to have had a hard time running from ward to ward to get a couple of people to nominate him.  He complained that Cr Snell was giving him a hard time by not saying whether he would stand again.  Mr Hardy says many persons have asked him to come out for different wards, but on the face of it he is compelled to waltz around town with his nomination forms practically begging someone to place their monogram on the paper.  He went first to North Ward, but no one was taking the bait and eventually when [J. Walker] came out for that ward he decided not to oppose him.  When he heard Mr Ockenden was coming out for East Ward he said he didn’t care if 500 Ockendens came out.  Then he was told that john Wise was running in West Ward and Hardy then fell back on East Ward.  He spoke [at the Ratepayers’ Meeting] in a most disjointed fashion about the rubbish depot and said microbes were blowing all over the town from it.  He accused the Council of being stagnant.  He also said ‘When I was in Council there were many shady things done.’  This calls for some explanation.  He did not tell ratepayers who was responsible for those things, but it is a strange thing that since he has been out of Council there have been no ‘rumpuses’.  In his time it was certainly a pantomime and a bear garden and the dignity of Council was buried deep and beyond all rhyme and reason as well as sensibility.  What he said ‘savoured very much of inconsistency, indiscreetness and ignorance.’

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
