---
title: Burra Cheer-up Society
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_43685
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_43685/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_43685
date: '1915-10-27'
date_display: null
volume: XXII
issue_number: '1971'
page: '2'
article_type: news
issue_reference: XXII, 1971, 27 Oct. 1915, page 2
people_mentioned:
- Chaplain Captain Nield
- Trooper Ockenden
- Pte Parks
- Sgt Lewey
- Pte Oates
- Ptes Horace Oates
- Stanley Pearce
- Ashton
- Rev. Nield
- Mr Crewes
places_mentioned:
- Burra
- England
- Fremantle
- Melbourne
- Ballarat
- Stawell
- Horsham
- Murray Bridge
- Leighton
- Kooringa
- Farrell’s Flat
topics:
- cheer-up
- war_support
- community
- fundraising
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Burra Cheer-up Society

Last issue we briefly mentioned welcomes for Chaplain Captain Nield and Trooper Ockenden and Pte Parks and farewells to Sgt Lewey and Pte Oates of WA who were on a visit and to Ptes Horace Oates of Leighton, Stanley Pearce of Kooringa and Ashton of Farrell’s Flat – the latter group on their long leave before embarkation.  Rev. Nield responded.  He said how glad Burra boys were to get a copy of the Record and how proud they all were of the effort to support the war.  In Burra one in thirteen had volunteered.  In England it was one in fifteen and for Australia generally one in thirty-five.  They were aware and appreciative of the fine work of Mr Crewes and the Cheer-up Society.  He reported very favourably on the treatment of the wounded.  He talked too of soldiers suffering shock from wounds, but also from seeing mates blown away from beside them.  Red Cross gifts from Australia did arrive, despite delays at times.  On their return they had been feted in Fremantle, Melbourne, Ballarat, Stawell, Horsham and Murray Bridge with gifts of oranges, chocolates etc.

Pte Oates of WA thanked them for their kindness.  He had been born in Burra and left 20 years before.  During the evening Pte Parks had to retire as he is quite unwell.


Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
