---
title: Burra Cheer-up Society, First Annual Report.
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_46689
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_46689/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_46689
date: '1916-05-31'
date_display: null
volume: XXXVIII
issue_number: '22'
page: '4'
article_type: news
issue_reference: XXXVIII, 22, 31 May 1916, page 4
people_mentioned:
- E.W. Crewes
- Miss Trix Pearce
- Miss Ethel James
- Mr F. Harris
- S.M. Lane
- E.J. Harris
- G. Lawn
- E.F. Marston
- J. McLaren
- R. Jones
- P. Milner
- Mrs A. Seager
- Mrs J.H. Nield
- Mrs W. Thomson
- Mr J. Pearce
- Mrs Seager
- Mrs J.A. McBride
- Norman McBride
- Lieut. M. Stevenson
- Governor
- Lady Galway
- Mr W.J. Sowden
- Cheer-up Girls
- Mr Crewes
places_mentioned:
- Burra
- Institute
- SA
- Adelaide
- Keswick hospital
- Burra Rifle Range
- Adelaide Cheer-up Hut
- Exhibition Building
- Burra Hospital
- Exhibition Building
- Carnival
topics:
- community
- war support
- fundraising
- donations
- social events
- military support
- hospital
- charity
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Burra Cheer-up Society, First Annual Report.

The group first met 15 May 1915 in a room at the Institute.  The aim was to give all those who were leaving for the front a happy send-off, to assist soldiers in various other ways and to support other patriotic efforts.  Elected were President, E.W. Crewes; Hon. Sec., Miss Trix Pearce; Assistant Secretary, Miss Ethel James; Treasurer, Mr F. Harris; Vice-Presidents, S.M. Lane, E.J. Harris, G. Lawn, E.F. Marston, J. McLaren, R. Jones & P. Milner.

Ladies Committee: Patron, Mrs A. Seager; President, Mrs J.H. Nield; Vice-President, Mrs W. Thomson.

In the year the membership grew to 334.

We soon procured a room free of cost from Mr J. Pearce.  Monday evenings have generally been work evenings for knitting woollen comforts.

A bugle was presented to the 10th Battalion by Mrs Seager on our behalf.

Blankets, sheets, etc. were collected to equip hospitals in the city for wounded and sick heroes on their return to SA and over £250 worth was sent away.

In June we lost Mrs Thomson, who went to live in Adelaide following the death of her husband.  Mrs J.A. McBride was elected in her place; though later she too had to resign on moving to Adelaide.

28 June Burra Cheer-up Society provided afternoon tea at Burra Rifle Range and on 2 July Violet Day was celebrated to raise money for the Cheer-up Hut in Adelaide and a bunch of violets was auctioned for £384.  On 14 July Mrs Seager visited us.

Norman McBride was presented with a second bugle from the Society and a third went to Lieut. M. Stevenson.

Meanwhile members gathered 30 dozen handkerchiefs and 6-dozen face-washers, plus writing material and bootlaces for the troops.  Six-dozen milk jug covers were also sent to Keswick hospital.

On 13 October Cheer-up Day in Burra was held to aid the Wounded Soldier’ Fund and we were visited by the Governor and Lady Galway and the President of the Adelaide Cheer-up Society, Mr W.J. Sowden.  The Adelaide Society recognised the large contribution of Burra & District by naming the Adelaide Cheer-up Hut’s main hall ‘Burra Hall’.  40 Cheer-up Girls formed a mounted guard of honour when the Governor visited and they were also asked to repeat it when he opened the Cheer-up Hut in Adelaide on 4 November.

Male members formed a class to make sandbags and several hundred were despatched.

On 10 December we ran YMCA Button Day in Burra.

On 5 December we sent large parcels of woollen comforts etc. to our boys in Egypt.

Fruit & cake were sent to Keswick Hospital for Christmas and 100 billycans filled with Christmas gifts were forwarded to the city for despatch to soldiers.

In February Mr Crewes unveiled the Burra panel in the Cheer-up Hut in Adelaide.

In April a ‘Cheer-O’ concert was given in the Institute to raise money for comforts for men of the 32nd Battalion.  Recently we sent four cases of pickles etc to the Cheer-up Hut and held a 6d gift evening to collect materials for a stall at the Exhibition Building for the Carnival on 18 & 19 May.

We had also sent sufficient poultry, ham and cakes, etc. to provide lunch for 300 soldiers.

Socials have been held, sometimes up to three in a week, to farewell departing soldiers and in 12 months we have given away 182 parcels of comforts for departing soldiers.

So far 11 volunteers have been returned to Burra and we aim to welcome back all returnees as we farewelled them.  The Society has provided a bed in the new part of the Burra Hospital.

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
