---
title: Local council and town news
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_28351
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_28351/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_28351
date: '1911-01-04'
date_display: null
volume: XV
issue_number: '921'
page: '1'
article_type: news
issue_reference: XV, 921, 4 Jan. 1911, page 1
people_mentioned:
- J.E. Winnall
- Mr S. Burns
- King Edward VII
- Dr Ashton
- Mr William Dearlove
places_mentioned:
- Hallett
- Burra
- Market Square
- Adelaide
- Clare
- Ketchowla
- West Ward
- Kooringa Methodist Church
- George St Bridge
- Burra Hotel
- Court House Hotel
topics:
- council
- public_health
- labor_strike
- shortages
- entertainment
- infrastructure
- charity
- business
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

The District Councils of Hallett and Burra will support the Town Council’s complaint about the railway timetable.

Prices are to be got for a new trough etc. in Market Square.

J.E. Winnall has been retained as Council solicitor for 1911.

Mr S. Burns is to be asked to open the King Edward VII memorial.

Dr Ashton reports two cases of whooping cough and one of typhoid.

[The Council seems to have dropped the idea of having a town pound.]

A Drivers’ Strike in Adelaide is causing shortages in the town.

Two of the hotels are out of beer [Though the Court House Hotel is advertising Clare Beer.]

One tradesman is unable to fulfil orders and of the grocers, three are out of sugar, two out of potatoes and kerosene is running short.  Fortunately there are signs of a resolution to the dispute.

‘Short & Sharp’

‘The Messiah’ was brilliantly rendered.

The George St Bridge is finished and looks good.

Mr William Dearlove of Ketchowla keeps up his gifts to the poor.

West Ward with two new street lamps will be well lit up at night.

Hospital Service at Kooringa Methodist Church on Sunday was well attended.

West’s Pictures will be in Burra on Friday night with Uncle Tom’s Cabin as a star film.

The landlord of the Burra Hotel, talking of converting the hotel into a two storey building.

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
