---
title: E.W. Crewe’s on Burra’s War Effort.
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_41963
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_41963/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_41963
date: '1915-06-02'
date_display: null
volume: XXII
issue_number: '1947'
page: '3'
article_type: news
issue_reference: XXII, 1947, 2 June 1915, page 3
people_mentioned:
- E.W. Crewe
- Lady Galway
places_mentioned:
- Burra
- Market Square
- Adelaide
- Leighton
- Mt Bryan
- Booborowie
topics:
- war
- fundraising
- community
- Red Cross
- Belgian Relief Fund
- Patriotic Fund
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

E.W. Crewe’s on Burra’s War Effort.

What Burra has Done and Is Doing for the European War.

£286-11-3 has been raised for the Patriotic Fund, of which £80 was sent to the Prince of Wales’ Fund.  The balance is being held to aid any of our boys who become wounded and disabled.  The committee is considering ways of augmenting the fund.

A local branch of the Red Cross was formed.  Large numbers met for months to prepare clothing, bandages and other requisites for the wounded soldiers.  The sum of £70 was also collected.

Belgian Relief Fund.  Various efforts to raise money for the sufferings of the Belgian refugees and Belgians at home were made, culminating in Belgian Flag Day.  This brought out the largest crowd ever seen in Market Square and visitors said it exceeded even Adelaide in its procession etc.  The sale of flags raised over £100.  Sale of a fat sheep over £20 and the concert over £25.  With the auction of goods the taking on the day were c. £300.  The Belgian Fund has now raised £800, of which £720 has been sent to Lady Galway and the committee is aiming for £1,000.  Several cases of useful clothing have also been despatched.

A Cheer-up Society has been formed and almost all the young ladies and many married women joined.  They meet several times a week, knitting and making garments for our boys at the front and in camp.

Including money subscribed directly to funds in Adelaide as well as locally it is estimated that over £3,000 has been donated in cash from Burra and also large quantities of apparel and medical necessities.

The greatest contribution has been about 110 of our young men.

In addition for the district Leighton, Mt Bryan and Booborowie have subscribed largely to the Patriotic and Belgian Funds

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
