---
title: 'Burra Burra Copper Co.: The Burra Mine'
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_16537
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_16537/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_16537
date: '1906-02-21'
date_display: null
volume: VX
issue_number: '715'
page: '5'
article_type: news
issue_reference: VX, 715, 21 Feb. 1906, page 5
people_mentioned:
- directors
- one old miner
places_mentioned:
- Morphett’s Shaft
- Burra Creek
- Burra Mine
topics:
- mining
- company
- tributers
- infrastructure
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Burra Burra Copper Co.: The Burra Mine

After months of waiting the company has at last introduced a pump to unwater the open cut, but the concentrating plant has not appeared and is not likely to if the proposed scheme proves unsuccessful.  Compared with the old pump at Morphett’s Shaft the one being erected now is a miniature.  It is said to be capable of pumping 30,000 gallons an hour.  A start is expected in about three weeks.  The pump will be immediately on the water’s edge and the water will be carried to the small channel that leads to Burra Creek.  Surprisingly the company has decided to suspend all tributing work.  On Friday the tributers were told to expect no more work after the present ‘take’.  The directors are to concentrate all efforts on the latest drive where excellent ore was discovered a few months ago.  They propose a shaft with three shifts of workers and if they meet with success more will be done, but if they run into old workings (which we are assured will occur) it will be ‘as you were’.  Apparently the idea of unwatering the open cut to set a number of pitches for tributers has been defeated.  The men who have worked there for at least 20 years and who have returned thousands of pounds to the directors of SAMA [and to the BBCC?] feel aggrieved.  One old miner said if tributing is taken away ‘it will spell ruination’ for the mine.  Obviously the system would have to change as the open cut was unwatered, but arrangements could be made to use the water pumped from the open cut and work could have been found for 20 to 30 men.  The scheme embarked upon does not suggest success for at least many months and putting down the shaft and other preliminary works will carry us well into 1907 and even then we will have to wait for the directors to say whether it is worth while entering into negotiations to develop the mine further.  On the other hand unless ore is being raised the finances of the company will soon be exhausted.  Surely this suggests that putting on as many tributers as possible could only help.  Twenty men on tribute could pay the wages of those engaged in digging the shaft.  At present the prospects are gloomy and unless the present cloud has a silver, or even a copper lining, no one need expect to see the Burra Mine any other than at present – practically dormant.

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
