---
title: Burra Hospital Board, Monday
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_47649
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_47649/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_47649
date: '1916-08-23'
date_display: null
volume: XXXVIII
issue_number: '34'
page: '2'
article_type: news
issue_reference: XXXVIII, 34, 1916-08-23, page 2
people_mentioned:
- Mr Crewes
- Josiah Thomas
- Dr Ashton
- Cr McBride
- Matron
- Briant
- Mayor
- Mrs Tennant
- Pte H.E. Davey
- Davey family
- Mrs Tennant
places_mentioned:
- Adelaide
- Burra Hospital
topics:
- hospital
- health
- dispute
- insolvency
- Red Cross
- sympathy
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Burra Hospital Board, Monday.

Mr Crewes took up the case of the man admitted to hospital on his note and then turned out.  He said the man was brought to him by Josiah Thomas and was spitting blood and looked seriously ill.  He said Dr Ashton would not admit him to hospital because it was in a state of insolvency.  After his discharge Mr Thomas took the man in and on Saturday night as much as a pint of blood and phlegm came away from his lungs.

Cr McBride said that at the Board meeting it was said the reason for not admitting him was that he was not ill enough.

Mr Crewes said he wanted to know if Dr Ashton had said the hospital was insolvent.  If the Doctor said the man was not ill enough, that was a different matter.

Cr McBride said Dr Ashton did say so and refused to sign the admission form.  Matron said there did not appear to be very much wrong with him.

Mr Crewes said this did not close the matter and he would take other steps.

Josiah Thomas writes outlining the case already put by Mr Crewes above, but going into more detail.  He ends by saying he is sending the sick man, Briant, to Adelaide to see a doctor and hopes he will get better treatment there.  He thanks the Mayor for his efforts.

The Red Cross Society expresses sympathy to Mrs Tennant on the death of her daughter and to the Davey family on the death of Pte H.E. Davey.

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
