---
title: The Eastern Telephone Syndicate
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_22193
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_22193/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_22193
date: '1908-07-22'
date_display: null
volume: VX
issue_number: 811 (2)
page: '2'
article_type: news
issue_reference: VX, 811 (2), 22 July 1908, page 2 [Repeat of number previously used
  6 May 1908]
people_mentioned:
- W.P. Barker
- J. Gallagher
- L.W. Gebhardt
- C.B. Warnes
- T. McWaters
- J.A. Riggs
- J. Reed
- J. Tennant
- J. Bowman
- H.S. Stephens
- T. McBride
- F. Treloar
- Postmaster-General
- Deputy Postmaster-General
places_mentioned:
- Baldina
- Pualco
- Quondong
- Mokoto
- Woolgangi
- World’s End
- Murkaby
- Mongolata
- Oakbank
- Manunda
- Redcliffe
- Quondong
- Burra
topics:
- infrastructure
- telephone
- organization
- meeting
- private enterprise
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

The Eastern Telephone Syndicate.

The meeting on Friday in F. Treloar’s office to discuss a proposed eastern telephone line was well attended.  W.P. Barker presided.  He believes promoters would receive very little encouragement from the Government and that they therefore had to consider constructing it privately.  Those present were:

W.P. Barker (Baldina)	J. Gallagher (Pualco & Quondong)

L.W. Gebhardt (Mokoto)	C.B. Warnes (Woolgangi)

T. McWaters (World’s End)	J.A. Riggs (Murkaby)

J. Reed (Mongolata)	J. Tennant (Oakbank)

J. Bowman (Manunda)	H.S. Stephens (Mongolata)

T. McBride (Redcliffe)

F. Treloar, as acting secretary, had collected much information.  The Government response so far is that even if they wanted to help there was no money, but some might be placed on next year’s estimates.  It was thought that a privately erected line would be best so that no time was lost.  The proposal is for a trunk line to Quondong, 95 miles from Burra.  Costs were established and then attention turned to the method of erection.  A decision to go ahead was made with only one dissention.  The proposal is for iron posts for the first mile and then timber, with the posts carted from the east.  One gentleman said he could provide them for £1 a mile.  Private erection is estimated at half the Government cost of £30 per mile.  The Postmaster-General reserved the right to erect all such lines within any railway reserve, municipality, township or public road.  On private land the method of construction is at the discretion of the persons constructing. With approval of the landowner.  A licence to operate is needed from the Deputy Postmaster-General when he is satisfied.  Another meeting was scheduled for 7 August.

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
