---
title: Quartermaster Sgt Sydney Edwards escape
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_56541
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_56541/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_56541
date: '1918-08-28'
date_display: null
volume: XXXX
issue_number: '34'
page: '4'
article_type: news
issue_reference: XXXX, 34, 28 Aug. 1918, page 4
people_mentioned:
- Quartermaster Sgt Sydney Edwards
- Sgt Levasseur
- John Collins
places_mentioned:
- England
- Germany
- Switzerland
- 11th Battalion
- 51st
- Egypt
- Mouquet Farm
- Pozieres
- Caudry
- Cambrai
- Graffenwohr
- Nuremburg
- Lechfeld
- Diesenhausen
- Thaingen
- Singen
- Berne
- Collinsville
- Moora WA
- Perth WA
topics:
- war
- POW
- escape
- military
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Quartermaster Sgt Sydney Edwards arrived in England 24 May 1918, having escaped from Germany via Switzerland after 19 months as a POW.  He left Australia with the 11th Battalion and transferred to the 51st in Egypt.  On 3 September 1916 he was captured in the fight for Mouquet Farm near Pozieres, when he was wounded in the thigh.  He spent a week at Caudry near Cambrai and then went to a lazarette at Graffenwohr and after four months to a camp at Nuremburg.  Later he did nine months at a camp at Lechfeld in Southern Bavaria, by which time he was in receipt of regular Red Cross food parcels. Here he volunteered for work as a farm labourer at the village of Diesenhausen, some 20 miles west of Lechfeld.  He managed to obtain a map and a compass, laid in a store of provisions and on 29 April began an escape with a French Sgt Levasseur.  They made their way to the Swiss frontier about 130 miles away and crossed the border between the Swiss village of Thaingen and the German town of Singen.  They were seen when 100 yards across the border and fired on by a sentry, but managed to escape.  The Swiss authorities sent them to their respective consuls in Berne.  Edwards has had considerable bush experience on stations of his uncle (John Collins of Collinsville) and grandfather.  He enlisted at Moora in WA and his mother lives in Perth WA.  He is the first Australian to escape via Switzerland.

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
