---
title: Marriage
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_22409
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_22409/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_22409
date: '1908-08-19'
date_display: null
volume: VX
issue_number: 815 (2)
page: '2'
article_type: marriage
issue_reference: VX, 815 (2), 19 Aug. 1908, page 2 [Repeat of number previously used
  3 June 1908]
people_mentioned:
- Mr Herman Schwarz
- Miss Bertha Ottilie Duldig
- F. Duldig
- Rev. Hansen
places_mentioned:
- Eudunda
- World’s End
- Bright Lutheran Church
topics:
- marriage
- community
- celebration
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Marriage.  Mr Herman Schwarz of Eudunda married Miss Bertha Ottilie Duldig, 3rd daughter of F. Duldig of World’s End, in the Bright Lutheran Church.  Rev. Hansen officiated.

Light refreshments preceded the dash to the home of the bride’s father.  A dozen vehicles tried to pass the bride and groom, but their leading trap had too much pace and the happy couple arrived first.  Dinner was immediately served in a galvanized iron room built specially for the occasion.  There were four highly decorated tables.  In less than a quarter of an hour 70-80 people were served with poultry, vegetables, etc.  A collection was made for the home Mission.  After dinner, with its attendant speeches, games of cricket and football were played as well as games like twos and threes and scores of others.  Refreshments were served at intervals with a sumptuous tea at 6 p.m., after which there were songs and recitations in both English and German, character sketches and other amusements in the house’s front room and a short farce: The Black Doctor, was well received.  Supper was served just before 12 o’clock and at midnight the wreath was taken from the bride’s head and the buttonhole from the groom, marking the release of both from their parents’ care.  Parlour games continued through the night with refreshments.  Breakfast was served at dawn.  Many then went home, but others stayed to continue the amusements and feasting.

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
