---
title: Burra Mine. Burra Burra Copper Co.
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_16757
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_16757/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_16757
date: '1906-03-21'
date_display: null
volume: VX
issue_number: '719'
page: '5'
article_type: news
issue_reference: VX, 719, 21 Mar. 1906, page 5
people_mentioned:
- Mr Jack Sanders
- Mr Thomas Drew
- directors
places_mentioned:
- Burra
- Copperhouse
topics:
- mining
- industry
- economics
- employment
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Burra Mine.  Burra Burra Copper Co.  Some work continues, but any hope of success is meagre.  Some ore has been struck in the drive and work is now directed to the westerly direction.  A few months ago Mr Jack Sanders probably one of the oldest miners in the town worked up to a patch of ore he knew was resting there when the mines stopped and he succeeded in cutting a nice lode from a tributer’s point of view and should, from our observations, have made a decent wage for the best part of the take.

Mr Thomas Drew, one of the directors, was in Burra from Saturday and left on Tuesday morning.  He inspected the mine and admitted that little work had been done.  He himself is not cheerful and says that if the property cannot be disposed of fairly soon they will have to stop.

We have said that the funds of the present company will run out and it will be useless for them to make a call, for not one in a hundred would respond.  The property would fall back into the hands of the directors and the tide is drifting that way.  Work on the pumping plant has stopped because the lifts for the pumps have not arrived and will not come till some time in April.

[Personal interest: the Jack Sanders mentioned above is almost certainly my great-grandfather John Sanders of Copperhouse.]

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
