---
title: 'Burra Mine.  Burra Burra Copper Company: Ninth Half-yearly Report'
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_17039
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_17039/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_17039
date: '1906-04-25'
date_display: null
volume: VX
issue_number: '724'
page: '5'
article_type: news
issue_reference: VX, 724, 25 Apr. 1906, page 5
people_mentioned:
- Mt James S. Pryor
- Mr Pryor
- editor
- Tributers
places_mentioned:
- Burra Mine
- Burra Burra Copper Company
topics:
- mining
- finance
- shares
- operations
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Burra Mine.  Burra Burra Copper Company: Ninth Half-yearly Report

There is £2,988-19-5 more to spend.  For the half year 27½ tons of ore sold for £371-10-2 for a loss of £188-18-5.  There are 50,000 unallotted shares.

The editor observes that the Tributers contributed £41-0-1 and it is a wonder they were not encouraged to do more.  He also observes that the remaining shares if allotted at 10/- each could raise a further £25,000.  [This of course supposed that investors could be found.]

The editor says he visited the mine on Monday and Mr Pryor wanted to know who had given him permission to be there.  He claimed the right as a shareholder.  He inspected the engine and engine house and found the pumping to be going smoothly.  A couple of tributers were using the water to treat hitherto useless stuff.  He then reports that Mt James S. Pryor has sent the editor a letter informing him that he is not allowed on the mine property without permission and if he persists he will be prosecuted for trespass, menacing and using threatening language to the company’s manager.  He says that is nonsense because all the threatening language has come from Mr Pryor’s side.  He continues to assert that the paper has told the public more than Mr Pryor wants them to know, but not to aggravate, but to induce those who were responsible for the delays to proceed with the development in a proper manner.  The old works must be got under to discover something better than has so far been found.

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
