---
title: Burra Cheer-up Society activities and finances
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_46701
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_46701/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_46701
date: '1916-05-31'
date_display: null
volume: XXXVIII
issue_number: '22'
page: '4'
article_type: news
issue_reference: XXXVIII, 22, 1916-05-31, page 4
people_mentioned:
- Mrs Thomson
- Mrs J.A. McBride
- Mrs Seager
- Norman McBride
- Lieut. M. Stevenson
- Governor
- Lady Galway
- Mr W.J. Sowden
- A.J. McBride
- Mr Glenister
- Mr F. Robertson
- Mr Crewes
places_mentioned:
- Burra
- Burra Rifle Range
- Keswick hospital
- Adelaide
- Adelaide Cheer-up Hut
- Burra Hall
- Exhibition Building
- Burra Hospital
- Egypt
- City
topics:
- fundraising
- charity
- hospital
- soldiers
- donations
- community
- war
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Blankets, sheets, etc. were collected to equip hospitals in the city for wounded and sick heroes on their return to SA and over £250 worth was sent away.

In June we lost Mrs Thomson, who went to live in Adelaide following the death of her husband.  Mrs J.A. McBride was elected in her place; though later she too had to resign on moving to Adelaide.

28 June Burra Cheer-up Society provided afternoon tea at Burra Rifle Range and on 2 July Violet Day was celebrated to raise money for the Cheer-up Hut in Adelaide and a bunch of violets was auctioned for £384.  On 14 July Mrs Seager visited us.

Norman McBride was presented with a second bugle from the Society and a third went to Lieut. M. Stevenson.

Meanwhile members gathered 30 dozen handkerchiefs and 6-dozen face-washers, plus writing material and bootlaces for the troops.  Six-dozen milk jug covers were also sent to Keswick hospital.

On 13 October Cheer-up Day in Burra was held to aid the Wounded Soldier’ Fund and we were visited by the Governor and Lady Galway and the President of the Adelaide Cheer-up Society, Mr W.J. Sowden.  The Adelaide Society recognised the large contribution of Burra & District by naming the Adelaide Cheer-up Hut’s main hall ‘Burra Hall’.  40 Cheer-up Girls formed a mounted guard of honour when the Governor visited and they were also asked to repeat it when he opened the Cheer-up Hut in Adelaide on 4 November.

Male members formed a class to make sandbags and several hundred were despatched.

On 10 December we ran YMCA Button Day in Burra.

On 5 December we sent large parcels of woollen comforts etc. to our boys in Egypt.

Fruit & cake were sent to Keswick Hospital for Christmas and 100 billycans filled with Christmas gifts were forwarded to the city for despatch to soldiers.

In February Mr Crewes unveiled the Burra panel in the Cheer-up Hut in Adelaide.

In April a ‘Cheer-O’ concert was given in the Institute to raise money for comforts for men of the 32nd Battalion.  Recently we sent four cases of pickles etc to the Cheer-up Hut and held a 6d gift evening to collect materials for a stall at the Exhibition Building for the Carnival on 18 & 19 May.

We had also sent sufficient poultry, ham and cakes, etc. to provide lunch for 300 soldiers.

Socials have been held, sometimes up to three in a week, to farewell departing soldiers and in 12 months we have given away 182 parcels of comforts for departing soldiers.

So far 11 volunteers have been returned to Burra and we aim to welcome back all returnees as we farewelled them.  The Society has provided a bed in the new part of the Burra Hospital.

Recent removals from the district mean we have lost Mrs J.H. Nield and Mrs A.J. McBride.  We have been proud to receive photographs of many of the volunteers and would welcome as many more as possible.  Thanks especially to A.J. McBride and Mr Glenister for free use of motor vehicles and to Mr F. Robertson for never charging to transport our Cheer-up parcels.

The balance sheets for the cheer-up Society and its Wounded Soldiers’ Fund are then printed.

Significant income for the year was:

Violet Day	£409-13-2

YMCA Button Day	£83-18-3

Ambulance Fund Collection	£103-0-0

Main Expenditure for the year:

To Adelaide Cheer-up Society	£414-0-0

Ambulance Fund	£103-0-0

Wounded Soldiers’ Fund

Income	£800-4-7

Of which Cheer-up Day provided	£778-6-2

Adelaide Cheer-up Soc. received	£350-0-0

Balance in Bank for local use	£370-15-9

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
