---
title: R.J.M. McBride
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_43503
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_43503/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_43503
date: '1915-10-13'
date_display: null
volume: XXII
issue_number: '1969'
page: '2'
article_type: news
issue_reference: XXII, 1969, 13 Oct. 1915, page 2
people_mentioned:
- R.J.M. McBride
places_mentioned:
- Nowry
- North of Ireland
- Adelaide
- Burra
- Mt Mary
- Barrier
topics:
- biography
- philanthropy
- pastoral
- mining
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

R.J.M. McBride: from an article in the Register on Saturday.

He is one of the grand old men of the pastoral industry.  He is characterised by enterprise, energy, sound commonsense and a shrewd judgement rarely at fault.  Though of recent years he has shed responsibility for sheep and wool interests he has continued to do good work principally of a philanthropic nature.  The public would be surprised to discover how much money he has distributed in the last decade to benefit others.  In connection with the different war funds alone he has subscribed £7,086 since November 1914.  He was born in Nowry in the North of Ireland in 1831 and went to sea at an early age.  He twice doubled the Horn.  He tried his luck at the Victorian Goldfields and arrived in Adelaide in 1856 with 5/- in his pocket.  He walked to Burra and was there engaged in carrying between Burra and Adelaide.  He later took fencing and other contracts on sheep stations.  In 1859 he became a squatter and over the years has owned many sheep stations.  He established ‘The Gums’ out from Mt Mary and occupied it for 20 years.  He was always interested in mining and early on recognised the potential of the Barrier field.  He bought 100 £10 shares in the Propriety Co. and subsequently sold some of them for £1,400 each.

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
