---
title: Burra Town Council, Thursday last
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_23851
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_23851/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_23851
date: '1909-04-14'
date_display: null
volume: VX
issue_number: '848'
page: '3'
article_type: news
issue_reference: VX, 848, 14 Apr. 1909, Page 3
people_mentioned:
- Cr Crewes
- Mr Duell
- Mayor
- M-C Clarke
- Rev. R.C. Yeoman
- Miss Clara Reed
- Rev. W.G. Clarke
- J. Davey
- G.E. Dane
places_mentioned:
- Burra
- Ridgway’s Reserve
- White Hart Bridge
- Kooringa
- Jubilee Hall
topics:
- council
- infrastructure
- reserves
- employment
- community
- church
- education
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Burra Town Council, Thursday last.

Cr Crewes moved that the top of the fountain be taken to the depot and the rest be painted white.

Ridgway’s Reserve is to be cleaned up.

The White Hart Bridge is to be tarred, painted and placed in order.

Other reserves will also be attended to.

Cr Crewes moved that the positions of Town Clerk and Inspector be united with a salary of £150 p.a.

Mr Duell, the Inspector, will be approached by the Mayor to see if he would be willing to do both jobs in the interim.

Cr Crewes moved that letters be sent to the parents of the boys who vandalised the tree guards in Kooringa on New Year’s Eve.

M-C Clarke to be advised of concern over growing larrikinism in Kooringa.

Rev. R.C. Yeoman and family were tendered a farewell social in Jubilee Hall on 6 April and the hall was comfortably filled.  Miss Clara Reed was presented with a silver-mounted dressing bag in recognition of her labours in the Church and Sunday school.

Kooringa Methodist Sunday School Anniversary last Sunday & Monday.  Rev. W.G. Clarke, President of Conference, preached three times to good congregations.  Singing was conducted by J. Davey and accompanied by the Burra Orchestra under G.E. Dane.  The tea meeting was well attended.  The Sunday school had 117 male scholars and 143 female with 6 male teachers and 15 female.  [The detailed report of the Sunday school extends for just over 1 column.]

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
