---
title: Burra Institute Committee; Rev. F.H. Durnford appointed Chaplain
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_42591
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_42591/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_42591
date: '1915-07-21'
date_display: null
volume: XXII
issue_number: '1957'
page: '1'
article_type: community_notice
issue_reference: XXII, 1957, 21 July 1915, page 1
people_mentioned:
- Mr McLaren
- Mr Thomson
- Mr Lane
- Mr Wilkinson
- Rev. F.H. Durnford
- Rev. Bloyd
- Mr Winnall
- Mr Treloar
- Mr Page
- Mr Crewes
places_mentioned:
- Burra Institute
- St Mary’s Schoolroom
- Terowie
topics:
- community
- institute
- dancing_ban
- billiards
- war
- appointment
- farewell
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Burra Institute Committee

Mr McLaren elected Vice-President for the rest of the year to replace Mr Thomson, deceased.  Subscribers number 120.  The committee discussed the issue of dancing for the duration of the war and decided to ban it in the hall.  Six subscribers and the committee then considered the desirability of a billiard room.  Three schemes were considered:

A room 18’ x 45’ with one table, costing £460 (Though costs have risen sharply since this costing was done.)

A room for two tables with the building and table to cost £570

(The third option does not seem to be reported in the paper.)

Terowie seems to be the only Institute to run a billiard room successfully from the four written to.

Mr Lane moved that with building materials so costly and the time inopportune, the matter stand over till after the war.  Mr Wilkinson 2nd.

Given the general lack of response from subscribers the motion was carried.

Rev. F.H. Durnford has been appointed Chaplain with Australian troops and received only 24 hours notice to join them.  A farewell social was hastily arranged in St Mary’s Schoolroom on Wednesday evening last.  Rev. Bloyd and Mr Winnall spoke and so did Mr Treloar, Mr Page and Mr Crewes.  Mr Durnford made a suitable response.  He left on Thursday morning’s train.

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
