---
title: Disputed Will
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_46277
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_46277/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_46277
date: '1916-05-10'
date_display: null
volume: XXXVIII
issue_number: '19'
page: '3'
article_type: news
issue_reference: XXXVIII, 19, 10 May 1916, page 3
people_mentioned:
- William Develaing
- Mary Develaing
- Mrs Bell
- Sarah Honan
- Maud Mary Honan
- Mr Winnall
- Mrs Short
- Mary Ann Develaing
- His Honour
places_mentioned:
- Kooringa
topics:
- legal
- court
- dispute
- probate
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Disputed Will.

The last will of William Develaing, who died 30 October 1914, was disputed.

The plaintiffs were Mary Develaing and Mrs Bell, for a will dated 29 October 1914, for which they were executrixes.  Defendant was Sarah Honan, through her guardian Maud Mary Honan.

The plaintiffs’ claim was for probate to be granted.

Defendants claim was the will was not properly executed and the proper will was another made on 19 March 1914.  Both wills were drawn up Mr Winnall.

Mr Winnall:

Was called to make the second will when the deceased was very ill because he had married on the previous day.  The witness considered the deceased understood the new will.  Mrs Short was in the room.  The testator signed with a mark.

Mary Ann Develaing said she had lived with the deceased 15 or 16 years in Kooringa and had been known as his wife all that time.  The deceased owned four houses in Kooringa.  She was not sure she was present when the testator signed the new will.  The instructions for the new will, she said, were it was to be the same as the old one except for the omission of a bequest of two houses to Mrs Bell, his daughter.  The will as prepared did not conform to this.  It left out the bequest as instructed, but made other alterations not authorised.

His Honour considered that because of the state of health and age of the patient he could not accept as conclusive that the testator was aware of differences between the instructions and the terms of the will.  The will could not stand.  This was no reflection against anyone.  He made no order in favour of the plaintiffs regarding costs.  Defendant to have costs out of the estate.

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
