---
title: Burra Mine. Burra Burra Copper Co.
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_19155
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_19155/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_19155
date: '1907-01-23'
date_display: null
volume: VX
issue_number: '756'
page: '3'
article_type: news
issue_reference: VX, 756, 23 Jan. 1907, page 3
people_mentioned:
- Another Disgusted Shareholder
- directors
- old miner
places_mentioned:
- Burra
- Gawler
- Melbourne
- Morphett’s Shaft
- Peacock’s Shaft
- Queensland
topics:
- mining
- business
- resource
- corporate
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Burra Mine.  Burra Burra Copper Co.

Since the failure to dispose of the mine things have gone very flat.  On Monday a dozen men were bagging 10 tons of ‘Penny’s Dump’.  5 tons goes to Gawler and 5 tons to Melbourne for special treatment to see if arrangements can be made to treat the stuff other than by the water process which it must be admitted is useless for Burra ore.  But there are not many hundreds of tons of this ore on the spot and not enough to warrant spending on machinery to treat it.  A new rule has appeared at the mine that no one is to work on tribute unless approved by the ‘manager’.

‘Another Disgusted Shareholder’ writes accusing the directors of the Burra Burra Copper Co. of being dogs in a manger.  Copper prices are over £100 a ton which 30 years ago would have kept the old mine going and enabled them to go down to a decent depth and to have opened up the sulphide bodies.  The last shots fired at Morphett’s Shaft are said to have broken ore of 45%.  Another old miner reports rich ore at the 300ft level of Peacock’s Shaft and there are other reports too.  A mine in Queensland is said to be paying on 7% ore and that with cartage of scores of miles to the railway.  The only inference to be drawn is that the directors are incompetent and should give way to better men.

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
