---
title: Board's defence in response to deputation alleging mistreatment of doctors
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_52517
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_52517/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_52517
date: '1917-11-21'
date_display: null
volume: XXXIX
issue_number: '47'
page: '3'
article_type: news
issue_reference: XXXIX, 47, 21 Nov. 1917, page 3
people_mentioned:
- Mr Hawkes
- Mr McBride
- Mr Winnall
- Dr Ashton
- Dr Williams
- Dr Steele
- Mr McLaren
places_mentioned:
- Sydney
- Burra
topics:
- hospital
- board
- doctors
- meeting
- finance
- resignation
- nursing
- appointments
- AIF
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

With reference to Mr Hawkes, who says he has been a Board member for 15 years and resigned last January on account of the manner in which the Board conducted the affairs of the Hospital: he was not one of the most regular attenders.  In his last year he attended 12 meetings, but in the previous year only 3.  He was re-appointed last time only after advising the Chief Secretary he would attend.  Mr Hawkes blamed the change in the Board on ‘a new element’ that came in about 5 years ago.

Mr Winnall then cited patient’s payments and free gifts since 1909 to show what the ‘new element’ had achieved in a financial sense.  (In 1909 £371 and in 1917 £702.)

Mr Hawkes claimed the humiliation of the doctors resulted in a complete debacle because doctors will not now come to the hospital.  This surprises the Board because on 26 March 1916 a letter was sent by the Board to the Chief Secretary.  A committee of Mr McBride, Mr Hawkes and myself produced the letter, which was drafted by Mr Hawkes.  It is hard to reconcile that letter with his statements at the deputation.

The letter drew the attention of the Chief Secretary to a serious difficulty that had arisen between the Board and Doctors Ashton and Williams.  The difficulties have spread over a considerable period and have now reached such a critical stage that the Board feels the hospital is seriously imperilled.  The Board sought assistance and direction.  The essentials of the trouble are cited in the letter as:

The Board believed the Doctors were abusing the legitimate uses of the hospital to their personal gain at Government expense.

Despite repeated requests the doctors have refused to attend the usual meetings of the Board.

With reference to (1) above the Board believed that doctors had been sending cases to hospital that could reasonably have been treated at home, using hospital staff, the operating theatre, instruments and dressings.  These patients are charged full fees by the Doctors and while the hospital is a convenience and concentrating point for the Doctors, these actions considerably increase the cost of its upkeep.  Recently a single woman employed at 10/- a week and which the hospital regarded as a non-paying patient received a threatening letter from Dr Ashton’s solicitor demanding payment of £17 odd for medical attendance.  This the Board strongly condemns.  Under the rules the Board can refuse admission, but this is a grave responsibility and the Board must rely on the good faith of the Doctors as to proper cases for admission.

As regards (2) the refusal of the medical officers to attend monthly meetings of the Hospital Board and their determined attitude to evade any personal contact with it and their curt acknowledgement or total ignoring of communications with it, brought about the situation that is incompatible with the proper management of the hospital.

As well as the issues raised above their absence from meetings precludes the Board from professional advice on constantly occurring issues arising in the running of the institution.

Dr Ashton has recently said he would not attend a meeting with the Board until a certain resolution had been expunged from the Board’s minutes.  The resolution is: ‘That the action of Dr Ashton in making a complaint against the nursing staff of the neglect of the enteric patient Riese is very unfair’.  This took place at the board meeting on 15 August 1913.  Dr Ashton was present and attended a subsequent meeting and apologised for not attending another.

On 8 January 1914 he resigned from the staff and left the district and on returning in 1915 accepted appointment as a medical officer of the hospital on 12 August 1915.  He at no stage complained of the resolution in question.  This suggests to the Board that the pretext for refusing to meet the Board is flimsy and has no relation to the situation.

Dr Williams is acting as locum tenens for Dr Steele, who is with the AIF and previous to last October he [Williams] had no knowledge of the hospital’s affairs.

The Board is fully aware of the gravity of the situation and has always sought to avoid aggravating the situation.  The situation is now so deadlocked that an appeal to the Chief Secretary was seen as the only course available.

Dr Williams had instructions from Dr Steele to attend Board meetings and has done so.

This letter, drafted by Mr Hawkes, makes it difficult to see how he can later say in the deputation that the treatment of the Doctors by the Board is the cause of why they will not meet us.

Mr Hawkes said further at the deputation that an instance of the Board’s arbitrary management involved the treatment of a nurse.  The Matron with 17 years’ experience applied for 9 months leave of absence without pay to take up obstetrics in Sydney.  The Matron, he said, was ruthlessly turned down and as a result resigned.  This is not true in substance or in fact.  Nurse Morney [Mosey] started as a probationer and worked her way up to be Matron.  No one can say a word against her.  Her training however, was confined to this hospital and she had no experience in obstetrics, so she applied to a Sydney hospital to take a course there.  When she approached me I said it would be hard to replace her for just that period and I thought it would be best if she resigned and when she returned she would have the best claim for first vacancy.  Just before a Board meeting she saw Mr Hawkes and changed her views.  At that meeting in June 1912 she asked for 12-months leave without pay.  The Board considered they could not grant it as she was going for her own advantage to acquire qualifications we could not use and we could not replace her for 8 months. [sic] [12?]

After she put in her resignation her mother fell ill and she asked to be allowed to withdraw it.  We agreed.  Later in November she resigned and left under the best conditions with a social send-off and presentation.

It is not true Dr Steele was annoyed with the Board.  Before he left he appointed me his attorney, so there can’t have been much wrong with my relations with him.  Dr Steele was in sympathy with the Board (for which I can produce documents) and instructed his locum tenens to attend Board meetings.

Mr Hawkes asserts that the Board became obsessed with a grudge against Dr Ashton, who is the only man capable of conducting operations in Burra.  I say that Dr Williams holds the same qualifications as Dr Ashton.  There is no grudge against Dr Ashton.

Mr Hawkes also says that in his last fortnight on the Board a vacancy occurred and young Mr McBride was appointed.  This is not true.  Mr McBride was appointed in July and Mr Hawkes resigned in the following January.  He goes on to comment on Mr McBride’s youth and lack of mature judgement.


Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
