---
title: Burra Town Council.
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_46937
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_46937/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_46937
date: '1916-06-14'
date_display: null
volume: XXXVIII
issue_number: '24'
page: '4'
article_type: news
issue_reference: XXXVIII, 24, 14 June 1916, page 4
people_mentioned:
- Mr Winnall
- Bright & Bright
- Hon. J. Lewis
- the Council’s solicitor
- Cr Dane
- Cr Killicoat
- S. Hyland
- Cr Radford
- Cr McWaters
- Lord Kitchener
- H.E. the Governor
- Mrs Burns
- The Mayor
- John Pearce
places_mentioned:
- George St
- Aberdeen
- Gully’s Wharf
- Council Chamber
- the mine
- Chapel St
- John Pearce’s Bridge
- Burra
topics:
- council
- infrastructure
- roll of honour
- memorial
- roads
- bridges
- condolences
- quarry
- trees
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Burra Town Council.

Mr Winnall advises that Bright & Bright have written stating that the offer made by Council re the lease of the creek was unacceptable by Hon. J. Lewis and asking whether the Council’s solicitor would receive service of a writ.

Estimate of cost of Roll of Honour obtained.

Cr Dane was against a costly roll if there was also to be a big memorial.  Also there was some objection to its location in the Council Chamber.

Cr Killicoat said the memorial would be to the fallen, but the roll of honour would include all those who enlisted.  Cost of having names in brass to be obtained.

S. Hyland, contractor, advises he could build the George St Bridge for £130 and one in Aberdeen for c. £160.  It was decided to do nothing at present.

Cr Killicoat urged the uprights at Gully’s Wharf be removed, as they would act as a baulk in another flood.

Cr Radford said all but one were sound and might be of use if a bridge similar to the old one were to be built.

Cr McWaters said if they were a baulk, then what was the bridge itself?

The site is to be inspected.

A message of regret at the death of Lord Kitchener to be sent to H.E. the Governor.

Condolences sent to Mrs Burns and family.

The Mayor and two or three Councillors have inspected the quarry at the mine and think it is first class.  All main road metal in future will come from there.

The lamp at John Pearce’s Bridge in Chapel St is to be shifted to the opposite side of the road.

500 pines and 500 caribs [sic, for carobs] to be applied for.

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
