---
title: The Burra Mine
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_14257
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_14257/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_14257
date: '1905-07-05'
date_display: null
volume: XV
issue_number: '683'
page: '5'
article_type: news
issue_reference: XV, 683, 5 July 1905, Page 5
people_mentioned:
- Mr James Pryor
- Mr Pryor
places_mentioned:
- Burra Mine
- Peacock’s Air Shaft
- SA
topics:
- mining
- discovery
- development
- industry
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

The Burra Mine

For over thirty years the old Burra Mine has been looked upon as a great thing that would one day bring salvation to the town and to SA as a whole.  We believe the day is nor far distant when the old copper town will enjoy prosperity on a greater scale than ever before.

A rumour was circulated yesterday that the manager Mr James Pryor had made a discovery of some importance.  He took our representative underground to see for himself.  At the bottom of the open cut the manager has put in a drive aiming to intersect with Peacock’s Air Shaft.  It has progressed some 60ft and in the process has found some excellent milling stuff.  But as development proceeds a lode was struck measuring over 30ft from which boulders of ore too large for one man to lift were won.  Such a find has not been encountered since the best days of the old mine.  Already many bags of oxides and carbonates have been placed to one side and the huge rocks of high grade ore are being stacked elsewhere in the mine.  The ore at this depth (water level) is better than near the surface, proving that the lode improves as it goes down.  Thousands upon thousands of tons of payable ore is in sight and it would take years to work out.  Mr Pryor is satisfied he has struck a main lode which will go at least 40% with little dressing.  No mine in SA is more encouraging at present.  All that is lacking is machinery.  If it were here thousands of tons of high grade concentrate could be treated at once.  The lode is well defined and while we were there boulders of copper ore were being got out from a face 30ft in width.  It is to be hoped machinery will now be installed and the water pumped to allow the lode to be followed down.  Without this nothing can be done.  Recent rains have exposed milling stuff all around the open cut – unpayable at the time of the old mine, but useful with modern machinery.

The directors have been informed and are expected to visit any day.

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
