---
title: Soldiers’ Aid Soc. 3rd AGM and activities report
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_55981
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_55981/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_55981
date: '1918-07-03'
date_display: null
volume: XXXX
issue_number: '26'
page: '4'
article_type: community_notice
issue_reference: XXXX, 26, 3 July 1918, page 4
people_mentioned:
- M.A. Radford
- Capt.-Chaplain Durnford
places_mentioned:
- Burra
topics:
- AGM
- charity
- fundraising
- knitting
- community
- Red Cross
- show
- sheep dog trials
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Soldiers’ Aid Soc. held its 3rd AGM.  M.A. Radford presided.

540 pairs of socks were knitted for the year.

Meetings have been held every other Thursday with 30-40 present each time.  We decided to send a small parcel to every Burra Boy – comprising a pair of socks, a khaki handkerchief and a tin of tobacco or butterscotch.  Over 50 have so far been sent.  This year there has been no demand for garments and bed linen.

We provided luncheon and afternoon tea at the Annual Sheep Dog Trials and takings of £64-16-10 were sent to the Red Cross, as September had been set aside as Red Cross Month.  Earlier in the year we had sent them £80.

We supplied luncheon and afternoon tea at the Show, but were unfortunately somewhat short of helpers on that occasion, but nevertheless the takings were £125-10-8.

The Girls’ Club started the year intending to arrange a 6d concert or social each month, but after some very enjoyable evenings the plan had to be given up due to the removal from town of some key members.

An appeal to wool producers for wool raised over £90.  Knitted goods amounted to 450 pairs of socks, 21 scarves, 23 pairs of knee pads, 38 pairs of mittens and gloves, 17 balaclavas, 7 vests and face washers & pyjama girdles.  Several parcels of knitted goods have been sent to Capt.-Chaplain Durnford.

Sewn items include 41 vermin-proof shirts, 38 flannel or blanket balaclavas, 2 blanket scarves, 27 cholera belts, 11 pairs of slippers and 21 pairs of bed socks.

100 Christmas boxes were donated.

The society also took an active part in all the town’s ‘big days’.

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
