---
title: The Liberal Union
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_28657
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_28657/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_28657
date: '1911-01-11'
date_display: null
volume: XV
issue_number: '922'
page: '3'
article_type: news
issue_reference: XV, 922, 11 Jan. 1911, page 3
people_mentioned:
- Mr Thomas McWaters
- Mr Warren
- W.H. Hardy
- W.E. Hodge
- J. McDonald
- S.M. Lane
- L. Lewis
places_mentioned:
- Burra
- Lodge Room
- the Institute
topics:
- politics
- party formation
- election
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

The Liberal Union

Mr Thomas McWaters chaired a meeting in the Lodge Room at the Institute on Friday with a view to the formation of a branch of the Liberal Union in Burra.  Mr Warren, the organiser, addressed the crowded room.  He said the formation of a new group was necessary to fight socialism and the old organisations that were opposed to it, namely the Farmers & Producers Political Union, the Liberal & Democratic Union & the Australian National League, had all been fighting each other allowing the socialists to win.  The three old movements had decided it was time to sink their differences.  The new party aimed to create general interest in public affairs, to secure a fair representation in state and federal Parliaments, to promote sound, progressive and humanitarian legislation, to unite all persons who agreed with their objects and platform and to select and support suitable candidates.  The new party did not agree with the present Government, the members of which had proved themselves incompetent.  Neither did they support the Government’s taxation arrangements.

W.H. Hardy moved that a branch of the Liberal Union be founded in Burra.  Seconded by W.E. Hodge and carried.  J. McDonald was elected President and S.M. Lane & L. Lewis were elected Secretaries.

[The Farmers & Producers Union had represented mainly the pastoralists, the Liberal & Democratic Union supported the interests of the small wheat farmer and the Australian National League served the rural/urban establishment.  The Liberal Union was formed in 1909, was later renamed the Liberal Federation, became the Liberal & Country League in 1932 and in 1976 the SA division of the Liberal Party. (The Wakefield Companion to South Australian History)]

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
