---
title: Burra & District Ambulance Fund.
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_45515
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_45515/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_45515
date: '1916-03-15'
date_display: null
volume: XXXIII
issue_number: '1990'
page: '2'
article_type: news
issue_reference: XXXIII, 1990, 15 Mar. 1916, page 2
people_mentioned:
- The Mayor
- H. Morgan
- Mr Tiddy
- George Ley
- Miss Trix Pearce
- E.J. Harris
- A.J. McBride
- Phil McBride
- Harry Dearlove
- Archie Dearlove
places_mentioned:
- Institute
- Mongolata
- Hanson
- Farrell’s Flat
- Booborowie
- Mt Bryan
- Hallett
- Burra
topics:
- ambulance
- fundraising
- demonstration
- military
- donations
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Burra & District Ambulance Fund.  The Mayor chaired the meeting last Wednesday at the Institute.  Agreement to help in raising money came from H. Morgan representing Mongolata, Mr Tiddy as Sec. of the Soldiers’ Aid Soc., George Ley as Chairman of Hanson DC and Miss Trix Pearce for the Cheer-ups.  The Mayor also said the Commercial Travellers had promised to do something.  E.J. Harris moved for a day for a united Burra & District Demonstration.  Support also came from the Red Cross Soc. and from representatives from Farrell’s Flat, Booborowie, Mt Bryan and Hallett.  Indications already are that the fund can easily get one ambulance and eyes are set on three.  Messrs A.J. & Phil McBride have, through the Cheer-up Soc. offered to fit up one of their big cars and hand it over fully equipped, so that is No. 1.  Has someone else a big car: the ambulance committee is prepared to put the top on.  Donations so far:

General	£99-16-0

From Cheer-up Soc.	£50-15-6

From Soldiers’ Aid Soc.	£37-  1-6

£187-13-0

A demonstration is planned for Wednesday 19 April.  The Military Authorities have been asked to give a demonstration of trench digging and wire entanglements.  Shopkeepers will be asked to close all day.

The Dearlove Family have sent a cheque of £22-14-0 to the Ambulance Fund and also Harry & Archie Dearlove are about to go into camp.

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
