---
title: Sunday Concerts / Military Band fundraising
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_45981
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_45981/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_45981
date: '1916-04-19'
date_display: null
volume: XXXIII
issue_number: '1995'
page: '3'
article_type: news
issue_reference: XXXIII, 1995, 19 Apr. 1916, page 3
people_mentioned:
- Mr Hawkes
- Will. H. Ogilvie
- Mr J.M. McBride
- Chaplain-Captain Cuttriss
- Captain Cuttriss
- Mr Lester
places_mentioned:
- Best Place
- Rotunda
- Burra
topics:
- music
- fundraising
- recruitment
- war
- patriotism
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Mr Hawkes gave a patriotic speech after the Mayor’s, ending with a patriotic poem by Will. H. Ogilvie that had been published in London Punch.

Sunday Concerts

On Sunday the Military Band gave a concert in Best Place.  The mayor announced that Mr J.M. McBride had now decided to personally give a fully equipped ambulance and also to donate £50 towards paying off the instruments of the Military Band, which he understood was in debt to that amount.  Chaplain-Captain Cuttriss gave an address including the remark: ‘There was no word in the English dictionary which described properly a man who could and would not go, the only thing to say was that he was “worse than a German”, we knew were [sic] the latter stood, but it was impossible to say how the shirker, the dawdler and the postponer stood.’

In the evening the band played in the Rotunda.  Captain Cuttriss again appealed for volunteers and believed ‘the church should make itself one of the most active agents to send men, money and munitions.’

‘The war . . . was a contest for supremacy between the Devil and God.’

The collector then played on north-south rivalries in the town in order to collect £55.

Mr Lester gave £19-18-6 from the picture show.

Soldiers’ Aid Soc.  The fund stands at £224-5-11 and £54-15-4 has been sent to Burra & District Ambulance Fund.

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
