---
title: Burra Hospital Enquiry.
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_53319
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_53319/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_53319
date: '1917-12-26'
date_display: null
volume: XXXIX
issue_number: '52'
page: '3'
article_type: news
issue_reference: XXXIX, 52, 26 Dec. 1917, page 3
people_mentioned:
- Mr Morris
- E.J. Davey
- Dr Ashton
- Dr Smith
- Frank Treloar
- Dr Williams
- Dr Steele
- W.G. Hawkes
- Mr Bartholomaeus
- Mr Mitchell
- George Hann
- Sister Mosey
- Mr A.J. McBride
- Mr Warnes
- Sister Mildred
- Nurse Fuss
- Mr Treloar
- Mr Hawkes
- Mr Mitchell
- Mr Warnes
places_mentioned:
- Burra
- Adelaide
- Jamestown
- Victor Harbor
- Adelaide Hospital
topics:
- hospital
- board
- dispute
- surgery
- patients
- enquiry
- medical_staff
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Burra Hospital Enquiry.

Mr Morris, Inspector General of Hospitals gave some purely formal evidence.

Mr E.J. Davey (Town Clerk) gave evidence as representative of the Foresters’ Lodge.  He thought the enquiry was more to do with the Hospital Board and Dr Ashton.  Two Lodge patients required operations for appendicitis, but owing to the disagreement Dr Ashton refused to act and one was sent to Adelaide and the other to Jamestown.  He had refused to treat any Lodge patients in the hospital.  Many other cases had been sent away and he thought it a disgrace and a position to be altered at any cost to the Board.

There was some legalistic sort of quibbling from the Board about what the Lodge’s complaint was and what Mr Davey expected of the Hospital and what area the patients should be admitted from.

Dr Smith elicited information that the Local Board of Health agreement with the Board concerning the payment for infectious cases had not been signed due to laxness on both sides and that the Government subsidy had in part been used to pay for cases for which the Local Board of Health should have been responsible.

Frank Treloar had been hospital secretary for c. 17 years.  He produced figures to show average daily occupancy of patients in his early years had been 28, 30, 29.  It then fell to c. 20 until 1916 when it was 15.  In the months so far for 1917 they figures were: 9, 10, 10, 13, 14, 12, 10, 9, 6, 6, 7. The Hospital had 35 beds plus private rooms.  (The latter at 10/- a day and the ward beds at 5/- a day.)

District Councils subscribed £5-5-0 each, but of recent times the Town Council had not.

Dr Smith wondered why Board Members did not recommend patients.

Mr Treloar said it was allowed under Rule 18, but the Medical Officers objected when it was tried.

There was no agreement with the Lodges over patients.  Such patients’ payment was decided on their ability to do so.  He believed the cause of the trouble was the Medical Officers’ refusal to attend Board meetings.  Dr Williams had done so recently.

Dr Williams said he came to Burra on 2 October 1915 as locum tenens for Dr Steele.  He did not think there was any seniority as to the Medical Officers at the Hospital.  He had treated Lodge patients at the Hospital, sending them in without enquiring as to payment.  At present staff were sufficient and he had no complaint about the attendance given.  Dr Ashton had assisted at operations, but not recently and about two months before had refused to administer an anaesthetic.  On another occasion he had refused to have a consultation, as it would have been Dr Williams’s orders that were carried out.  Doctors reserved the right to charge patients, except Lodge patients, apart from Hospital fees.  He attended some Board meetings and did not think it unreasonable and had no complaints about the Board.  He had no similar experiences elsewhere.  In Victor Harbor Lodge Patients were looked after at home: facilities for them in Burra were much greater.  In country hospital with only one doctor the Matron or someone else administers the anaesthetic.

W.G. Hawkes said he had been a member of the Board for 20 years until January 1917, when he did not accept reappointment.  Of recent years the Board had not worked amicably.  He cited the Sister Mosey incident and Mr Bartholomaeus telling Dr Steele to ‘mind his own business’.  Mr Hawkes thought that improper and said so at the next meeting.  When it was proposed to allow Board members only to admit patients the doctors continued on the old way and he felt members could not have the responsibility.  He then repeated his motion where Dr Ashton was said to have been unfair to a nurse.  He was not then present, but considered such a motion to make good working conditions impossible and it could have been handled in a different way.  But above all it was the demeanour of the Board that had created distrust between doctors and the Board.  Had he been on the Board he would have opposed the dismissal of Dr Ashton.

Mr Mitchell asked if the Board was offensive in renouncing their right to admit patients – practically a rule in all hospitals.  He asked if it had occurred to Mr Hawkes that the doctors might have intended to injure the Board.

Mr Hawkes thought Dr Ashton had been goaded, but he could not defend him entirely.

Mr Mitchell then asked a question containing a double negative re the offensive motion: apparently suggesting the matter should have been raised on Dr Ashton’s return and reappointment.

When Mr Mitchell was looking for support for the antagonism in the minutes Mr Hawkes said it was not there.

Dr Smith asked if the Board was really out of line in refusing Nurse Mosey’s request and Mr Hawkes conceded that they had a right to decide.  When Dr Smith tried to elicit who would benefit by her studies Hawkes equivocated.

Dr Smith: ‘If an employer [sic] refused to do his duty until you withdrew insulting words, what would you do?

I would dismiss him but I would not put him on again.’

[The context needs ‘employee’ rather than ‘employer’.]

Asked if the Hospital could continue with one doctor Mr Hawkes was sure it could not.

Dr Smith pointed out to George Hann that if you went to a public hospital you could not expect to choose your own doctor unless you paid 10/- for private accommodation and then if your own doctor doesn’t attend it is his fault.

Mr Treloar was recalled and said he had notified Dr Ashton of his appointment as an honorary Surgeon with the same status as at the Adelaide Hospital – Dr Ashton had not accepted the position.

Sister Mildred, Matron since March 1917 and previously charge sister since November 1915 (except for 6 months sick leave) said she had no complaints about Dr Williams or the Board and was not aware Dr Ashton had made any complaints about her to the Board.  On one occasion he wanted to operate at 11 a.m. and she had said it was very inconvenient, as they were short handed and she requested any time after 6 a.m. or 4 p.m., so she might have the aid of the night nurses.  He had said ‘Be damned to you, it is none of your business, you want to manage my business.  If you don’t do as I say, I will report you to the Inspector-General of Hospitals.’

The doctor’s desired arrangement was a practical impossibility.  The charge nurse was away on examination, there was only one junior nurse, a probationer, on day duty, the ward could not be left and the witness required help in the theatre.  The operation was postponed.

Dr Ashton’s preferred time for operations was to start about 8 p.m., which meant the nurses who had worked all day were up till 1 and 2 a.m., as there was no one to relieve them.  So far as the matron could judge some of the operations were not urgent.  Some cases had been in the hospital a fortnight and other arrangements could easily have been made.  She had reported the matter concerning the patient whose case had initiated the trouble to the Board.

One day Dr Ashton came to the hospital at 11.40 and asked a nurse if she had the patient in the theatre at 11 a.m.  The nurse said she knew nothing about it.  Dr Ashton asked the Matron if she had not received an order from the night nurse to prepare the patient.  She had not.  He said he had instructed Nurse Fuss to do so for 11 o’clock.  Nurse Fuss subsequently said she had received no such orders.  Dr Ashton told the witness the staff was not sufficient and Matron said by the Board’s orders she had tried to get help and could not.  Dr Ashton said that was not his affair whether the staff was sufficient or not, if anything happened he would refuse to give a death certificate and would report the matter to the coroner.

It would be an advantage to hospital administration if all orders for operations were given to me.  There were not always consultations before operations.  In most hospitals certain days and hours are recognised for operations: in Burra the hour was determined by the operator’s convenience except in emergencies, and not by the necessity of the patient, or the convenience of the staff.  It would be easier if there were a recognised rule and the lack of such caused all the friction so far as I am concerned.  The doctors used to make it a point to visit daily at meal hours.  She asked the doctor not to go into the ward at meal times and the reply was ‘it suited him and he would do so’.

Mr A.J. McBride, Chairman of the Board, submitted the minutes and other documents and said he believed the trouble was largely due to the Board’s desire to control admissions.  Mr Hawkes was the first to object to their having sole control and the regulation fell into disuse.  As far as memory served the alleged discourtesy to Dr Steele occurred 12-18 months after the Nurse Mosey case.  In the context of the occasion Mr Warnes had appealed to the Chairman re the doctor’s power to intervene and the Chairman had said to the doctor ‘You mind your own business.’  But it had been neither intended nor taken as an insult.

Dr Ashton had been given the reason ‘disregarding instructions’ as the reason for his dismissal.

He was appointed Honorary Surgeon because a father of a boy patient wanted him to operate on the boy.  Dr Ashton still had the power of sending anyone to the hospital.  He had not acknowledged the letter appointing him Honorary Surgeon.

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
