---
title: Aberdeen Football Club celebrated winning the premiership
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_18371
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_18371/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_18371
date: '1906-10-31'
date_display: null
volume: VX
issue_number: '746'
page: '3'
article_type: news
issue_reference: VX, 746, 31 Oct. 1906, page 3
people_mentioned:
- W.J. Richards
- W.J. Davey
- C. Tiver
- W. Neville
- Mr Chapman
- T. Harris
- James Richards
- R. Neville
- Thomas Tiver
- W.H. Hardy
- A.G. Shortridge
- W. Barkley
- J.D. Kelly
- P. Casey
- W. Neville Jnr
- Mr Hardy
places_mentioned:
- Royal Exchange Hotel
- Kooringa
topics:
- sport
- club
- event
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Aberdeen Football Club celebrated winning the premiership with an annual social at the Royal Exchange Hotel on Thursday evening.  Attendance was disappointingly low.  W.J. Richards took the chair.  There was the usual series of toasts for which the speakers were: W.J. Davey, C. Tiver, W. Neville, Mr Chapman, T. Harris, James Richards, R. Neville, Thomas Tiver, W.H. Hardy, A.G. Shortridge & W. Barkley.

R. Neville got the award for all-round best player.  The most effective service medal went to J.D. Kelly and P. Casey was the most gentlemanly player.  W. Neville Jnr gave the club report [which oddly enough revealed there were fewer financial members than there were players in the team.]

Kooringa Club was not represented and only a couple of men represented the Rambler Club.  For them Mr Hardy said ‘he had watched most games for the season, and considered football was the only game worth going very far to see.  He congratulated Aberdeen on appropriating the Premiership.  The Ramblers were not hardly strong enough, but they might come along next year.  As soon as the season was over Ramblers and Kooringas dropped all interest in it like a hot spud, they were going to hold a picnic directly to celebrate the success they had made during the season.

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
