---
title: Burra Show report
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_11501
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_11501/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_11501
date: '1904-10-05'
date_display: null
volume: XV
issue_number: '646'
page: '1'
article_type: news
issue_reference: XV, 646, 5 Oct. 1904, page 1
people_mentioned:
- Gebhardt Bros.
- T.H. Pearse & Son
- W.I. Short
- E.J. Harris
- C. Fuss
- Miss G. Fuss
- Miss M. Fuss
- Ah Chin
- Charles Fuss
- Marguerita (Grita) Fuss
- Muriel Fuss
- Myrtle Fuss
places_mentioned:
- Burra
- The Gums
topics:
- show
- agriculture
- dairy
- poultry
- horses
- cattle
- sheep
- dogs
- competition
- prizes
- flowers
- cookery
- implements
- school
- horticulture
- arts_and_industries
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Attendance was lower than expected, but the show was good even if there is room for many improvements.

Agricultural products were only fair due to the poor season.

Dairy produce was about the same as last year.

Poultry was better and the local club members showed some excellent birds.

Draught horse numbers were up and some fine animals were shown.

Cattle filled the yards this year.

Dogs were more numerous than usual.

Sheep were the best ever seen in competition in Burra.

Gebhardt Bros. had not shown for some time, but this year came out in force to win the bulk of the prizes.

T.H. Pearse & Son of ‘The Gums’ were to the front in the aged ram class with two enormous sheep.

Implements were shown in greater numbers than previously.  This year’s flowers and cookery were poor.

The school class showed a falling off.

W.I. Short sent along one of the best collections of vegetables ever seen at a Burra Show and won most of the prizes.

E.J. Harris had a fine lot of bacon and also bulk honey and jams etc.

The sideshows filled an interesting part of the show and there was an evening concert in the Institute.

The list of prize winners is printed.

[Personal interest:

Dogs

Newfoundland	Ah Chin

Open Class Vegetables grown within 30 miles of Burra

Cauliflowers	Ah Chin

Lettuces	Ah Chin

Flowers

Collection of cut flowers	C. Fuss

6 cut flowers	C. Fuss

Hand Bouquet	Miss G. Fuss 2nd

Basket of Flowers	C. Fuss

Arts & Industries

Pinafore	Miss M. Fuss

Note: C. Fuss = Charles	Miss G. Fuss probably = Marguerita (Grita) Fuss

Miss M. Fuss = Muriel Fuss or possibly Myrtle Fuss.]

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
