---
title: Ratepayers’ Meeting, last Wednesday, presided over by E.W. Crewes.
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_20895
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_20895/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_20895
date: '1907-12-04'
date_display: null
volume: VX
issue_number: '800'
page: '3'
article_type: news
issue_reference: VX, 800, 4 Dec. 1907, page 3
people_mentioned:
- E.W. Crewes
- The Mayor
- Mr Tiver
- Mr W.C.L. West
- Mr Carey
- Mr Hardy
places_mentioned:
- Mt Bryan Road
- Royal Exchange Hotel
- White Hart ford
- saleyards
- Victoria Park
- cemetery
topics:
- council
- infrastructure
- roads
- bridges
- public works
- parks
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Ratepayers’ Meeting, last Wednesday, presided over by E.W. Crewes.

Only 3 or 4 ratepayers were there at 8 p.m., but gradually about 30 drifted in.

The Mayor reported and his report is printed.  The expenditure for the year approximately matches income.

The lamp lighting item of £67-13-4 includes the cost of six new acetylene lamps.

Tree planting has continued vigorously.

In the cemetery the mortuary chapel was painted.

We have hopes that the length of road from Mr Tiver’s to the Mt Bryan Road will become a main road.

[i.e. from the Royal Exchange Hotel over the White Hart ford to the saleyards.]

The two iron bridges have has wire netting placed on them.

[This followed a couple of accidents in which people fell through the railings.]

The model by-laws prepared by the Municipal Assoc. have been adopted and will be in force as soon as they are gazetted.

Mr W.C.L. West addressed the meeting as he was standing again for Mayor.  He favoured extending tar dressing of which some 40 chains had been done this year. (With some 12 chains of kerbing.)

Mr Carey favoured road making, tar dressing and more lights in the town.

Mr Hardy also favoured tar dressing of paths, but felt that some old ones needed redoing before new ones were added.  Victoria Park should be made more attractive.

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
