---
title: Editorial on the Burra Mine.
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_14301
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_14301/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_14301
date: '1905-07-12'
date_display: null
volume: VX
issue_number: '684'
page: '4'
article_type: news
issue_reference: VX, 684, 12 July 1905, Page 4
people_mentioned:
- the directors
places_mentioned:
- Burra Mine
- the town
topics:
- mining
- economy
- employment
- development
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Editorial on the Burra Mine.

After a very long wait with not much happening ‘a rich lode of not only payable but profitable ore has been struck’ as reported last week.  All that is needed is the erection of suitable machinery to treat thousands upon thousands of tons of high-grade milling stuff.  If work was commenced tomorrow the speculation would prove highly profitable.  We believe nothing better will be struck above water level.  There is now no excuse for the directors not to succeed except the lack of capital.  The allotment of shares should be rearranged (if necessary) by putting those shares held by the directors on the market which would raise something like £20,000.  [Presumably this refers to shares held in reserve by the company rather than shared held personally by the directors.]  While this is not enough to fully develop the mine, it would open up the find and would immediately give good returns.  The mine has ceased to be a speculative venture as what was sought has been found.  All this when the town is ‘in such a dilapidated and destitute state’.  ‘Our population is fast decreasing.  Many families that are left are in a starving condition, and they have no hope beyond work at the mine being proceeded with.’

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
