---
title: Burra Mine.  Burra Burra Copper Co.
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_19067
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_19067/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_19067
date: '1907-01-16'
date_display: null
volume: VX
issue_number: '755'
page: '2'
article_type: news
issue_reference: VX, 755, 16 Jan. 1907, page 2
people_mentioned:
- Messrs Smith & Co.
- tributers
- directors
- a disgusted Adelaide shareholder
- the present manager
places_mentioned:
- Burra
- Adelaide
- Block 10 Mine
- Broken Hill
- London
topics:
- mining
- corporate
- economy
- community
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Burra Mine.  Burra Burra Copper Co.  On 8 January we expected the mine to be sold to an Adelaide-Melbourne Syndicate.  A sale has been suggested as likely several times in recent years, but none seemed as likely as this most recent.  When the news came through that it had failed property values in Burra fell and people hanging on in the town in the hopes of change have decided to move on.  The pumping plant is now idle and the jigs forsaken.  Shafts and drives have been abandoned and the mine more dormant than it has been since the old mine whistle ceased.  The directors are blamed for this sad state of affairs, rightly or wrongly, and the Government is to be approached to see if they can make an arrangement with them to get the property working.  [The writer hints at various things that he doesn’t spell out, but certainly believed that the directors have botched the whole operation and had employed a manager who had undoubtedly erred.]

‘During the past six months over £1,227-19-8 has been expended in so-called development – we call it pig-rooting of the very worst kind – and in return about £334-2-2 was received.’

The writer believed the mine could have been developed allowing parties of miners to take sets on tribute and allowing them to put drives in new ground, properly timbered, the directors to find the timbering.  Messrs Smith & Co. ought to be approached while the pumping plant is still intact at the site.

‘We venture to say that there are tributers on the mine whose experience places them head and shoulders above the present manager to take sole control of the proposed work.’

The tributers have made something like £400 - £500 this last ‘take’ by simply working up cast-off stuff.  There is some talk of a London Co. being interested or of Block 10 Mine of Broken Hill, but all such must be taken with a grain of salt.  Tributers have now been given the option of resuming work in the cutting as before.

A disgusted Adelaide shareholder writes re the Burra Mine, saying he understands the directors wanted ⅓ of the mine and the right to have three directors on the board.  Those proposing to buy considered if the directors were not competent to manage it before they will not be now, and so withdrew their offer – demanding outright purchase or nothing.  Shareholders in Burra should have met and demanded the mine be worked in a proper manner.  Now the Government should step in with some capital.

‘Go for the directors straight out, do not be too gentlemanly.’

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
