---
title: ‘Short & Sharp’
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_25937
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_25937/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_25937
date: '1910-01-12'
date_display: null
volume: VX
issue_number: '885'
page: '3'
article_type: news
issue_reference: VX, 885, 12 Jan. 1910, page 3
people_mentioned:
- Rev. H.L. Ebbs
- Mr I.A. Macindoe
- Hon. J. Lewis
- Dr J.I. Sangster Jnr
- S.M. Lane
- Mr S. Burns
- L.A. Lewis
- G.E. Dane
- Rev. Farley
- F.T. Harcus
- J.F. Moore
- W.T. Truscott
- N. Pearce
- W.J.C. Ewins
- A. Lott
- L. Gebhardt
- Messrs Milner & Cameron
places_mentioned:
- Aberdeen
- St Mary’s
- Magill
- Campbelltown
- the Gorge
- Burra
topics:
- community
- appointments
- social
- farewell
- clubs
- events
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

‘Short & Sharp’

Wirth’s Circus at Aberdeen tonight.

Fresh applicants for the old age pension are continually cropping up in the district.

Rev. H.L. Ebbs has resigned the incumbency of St Mary’s and has accepted charge of Magill & Campbelltown.

The Boy Scouts went into camp at the Gorge on Tuesday expecting to be away from home overnight.

Mr I.A. Macindoe was accorded a farewell social on Wednesday evening in Hon. J. Lewis’s old schoolroom.  He has been in a prominent position at the Bank of Australasia for five years and active in all kinds of sports and social gatherings.  The report extends for ¾ column.  Dr J.I. Sangster Jnr presided.  S.M. Lane proposed Mr Macindoe’s health and presented him with a handsome dress travelling bag.  Other speakers were: the Mayor Mr S. Burns, L.A. Lewis, G.E. Dane (Burra Music & Dramatic Club), Rev. Farley, F.T. Harcus (Manager of the Bank of Australasia), J.F. Moore (Manager of the National Bank), W.T. Truscott (Football Association), N. Pearce (Burra Rifle Club), W.J.C. Ewins (for dramatic work), A. Lott (Ramblers Football Club), L. Gebhardt (Burra Automobile Club) and Messrs Milner & Cameron spoke as associates.  Mr Macindoe gave a firm and collected response and his review of his life in the town and acknowledgement of the kind words of the speakers provoked the comment that he ought to have been a politician.

The ladies of the Tennis Club presented him with a set of electroplated hair brushes and the Burra Rifle Club gave him two Barling pipes in a case, a cigar case & holder and a tobacco pouch.

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
