---
title: History of the Burra Burra Mine, by James Thomas Snr, No. 4.
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_51139
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_51139/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_51139
date: '1917-07-11'
date_display: null
volume: XXXIX
issue_number: '28'
page: '3'
article_type: other
issue_reference: XXXIX, 28, 11 July 1917, page 3
people_mentioned:
- James Thomas Snr
- Mr Paxton
- Mr Wren
- Messrs Cowper
- Opie
- Mr Greenwood
- P. Lane
- Henry Dawson
- Mr Lange
- Mr Powell
places_mentioned:
- Burra Burra Mine
- Burra Hotel
- Lord’s Hotel
- Miners’ Arms
- Pig & Whistle
- Kooringa
- Aberdeen
- Opie’s Hotel
- chain road
- Burra
topics:
- history
- mining
- living_conditions
- businesses
- social_history
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

History of the Burra Burra Mine, by James Thomas Snr, No. 4.

Was it a golden time and a time to accumulate wealth?

Surface workers got £1 and underground workers £1-10-0 a week, but wet weather could reduce the pay.  There was no rent to pay on dugouts.  These were dark and not well ventilated and their position made the getting of the necessities of life to them strenuous.  Fuel and water etc. had to come down rough steps.  Butchers, bakers and grocers shouted down chimneys to summon women up to be served.  Finding a place for a woodheap, clothesline, water barrel and other outside matters called for ingenuity.  The view from the door was creek bed and distant hills.  Sunday was a bright spot in the week.  Furniture was little and crude and home made and light came from a slush lamp or tallow candle.  Camp ovens were a necessity.  Many kept the Sabbath, but others desecrated it.  One set regularly went out kangarooing, but more often returned with a bandicoot or wildcat.  There were many colours and nationalities, including a few Negroes.  Some fancied cockfighting or dog fighting.  Mr Paxton built four hotels and a square of houses: i.e. the Burra Hotel (now the hospital), Lord’s Hotel [then the Miners’ Arms], the Pig & Whistle in Kooringa and in Aberdeen there was a little hotel called the Southampton Arms, which had to be strangled to give him a monopoly, so he built Opie’s Hotel on the north boundary of the mine, ‘just across the chain road from the Southampton Arms’.  Soon the peace-loving, law-abiding community was converted ‘to a drunken, wife-beating rabble’.  The first publican I remember was Mr Wren of the Burra Hotel and Messrs Cowper kept the other two.  The shops were then:

General Stores:	Boord Bros.

Thomas & Kekwick

Marks & Gollin

Thomas Bath

Samuel Drew

Warren Bros.

Doctor Moore

Chemist:	Mr Greenwood

Saddle & Harness	P. Lane

Henry Dawson

The SM was Mr Lange

Clerk of the Court was Mr Powell.

[Up to 1851.]

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
