---
title: Opening of Mt Bryan Hall
type: records
slug: 1900_1919_record_content_26259
url: /records/1900_1919_record_content_26259/
record_id: 1900_1919_record_content_26259
date: '1910-03-02'
date_display: null
volume: VX
issue_number: '892'
page: '3'
article_type: news
issue_reference: VX, 892, 2 Mar. 1910, page 3
people_mentioned:
- Mr H.S. Stephens
- Mr Miller
- Mr Newland
- John Pearce
places_mentioned:
- Mt Bryan Hall
- Petherton
- My Bryan-Hallett
- Burra
topics:
- community
- hall opening
- celebration
- sports
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1900-1919-record
---

Opening of Mt Bryan Hall

The hall was opened on 16 February by Mr H.S. Stephens, Chairman of the District Council.  Messrs Miller & Newland MPs came from the city by the midday train and the opportunity was taken to make representations to them about the inadequacies of the local school.  A banquet was then partaken of in the new hall.  Mr Miller spoke of the Government’s buying of Petherton some five years since and its subdivision into farms.  Mr Newland said the building reflected the enterprise of the locals and he admired the building’s dimensions.  All this was the result of closer settlement.  He spoke of the need for better station facilities.  The speeches and toasts are reported in detail.  A tea was provided and then a concert followed by a dance.  The proceeds are said to have been £30-£40.  [Though in another column the figure is over £40.]

The hall is 44’ x 33’ x 18’ and the ceiling is of V jointed Oregon, the stage is 11’ deep and the windows are of cathedral glass.  John Pearce was the contractor.  A tennis match added to the enjoyment of those attending.  My Bryan-Hallett defeated Burra by one game.  There were also sports organised for the children as well as a cricket match.  In the latter Burra Automobile Club 7 for 137 defeated a combined Mt Bryan-Hallett-Ketchowla-Yongala team 94.

Source publication: [1900 1919 Record](/publications/1900-1919-record/)
