---
title: Norman Maxted.  Born in Burra in 1929
type: records
slug: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_14474
url: /records/1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_14474/
record_id: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_14474
date: '1987-04-16'
date_display: null
volume: null
issue_number: null
page: Supplement
article_type: community_notice
issue_reference: 16 April 1987 [Possibly a mistake for 15 April as it claims to be
  a Wednesday.]
people_mentioned:
- Norman Maxted
places_mentioned:
- Burra
- Mt Bryan East
- BHS
- Kingaroy
- Gum Hill Stud
- Grainger Street
- Mintaro
- Booborowie
- Terowie
- Clare
topics:
- community
- council
- agriculture
- local government
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1978-1993-bcs-cn
---

Norman Maxted.  Born in Burra in 1929 and educated at Mt Bryan East Primary School and BHS.  Gained employment in the National Bank and was transferred to Queensland.  Upon leaving the bank went share-farming before purchasing a small mixed farm at Kingaroy.  Returned to Burra and worked on Gum Hill Stud before moving to our own farm.  Have four children and served for ten years on the Mt Bryan School Committee, being secretary for several years.  Served on the Mt Bryan East Bus Management Committee for six years and for six years on the BHS Council.  Played tennis and was President of Mt Bryan Tennis Club for several years and Captain of its B Grade team.  Secretary of the North Eastern Football League for four years.  Have served terms as Chairman and Secretary of the Agricultural Bureau.  Involved in the Methodist Church as Junior Circuit Steward.  When Burra Mine reopened I was an operator, shift-boss and eventually Day Foreman & Safety Officer.  In 1976 became manager of the Clare Caravan Park and was responsible for its upgrading to one of the best in SA.  Senior Vice-President of the Caravan Parks Association of SA.  We returned to our home in Grainger Street, Burra, in 1984.  Burra ratepayer for 30 years and a Councillor for the past two years.  Currently self employed a silo agent and have mail delivery contracts to Mintaro, Booborowie and Terowie and operator of the locally owned grain cleaning service.

Source publication: [1978 1993 Bcs Cn](/publications/1978-1993-bcs-cn/)
