---
title: Burra Burra DC
type: records
slug: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_15380
url: /records/1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_15380/
record_id: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_15380
date: '1987-10-21'
date_display: null
volume: null
issue_number: null
page: Supplement
article_type: news
issue_reference: 21 October 1987
people_mentioned:
- Mr David Bannear
- Cr Chris Reed
places_mentioned:
- Chapel Street
- Commercial Street
- Bridge Street
- Best Place Creek Reserve
- Council Office
- ANZ Bank
- Township of Hampton
- Ludgvan Street
- Burra Mine Site
- Burra Creek
- Pickett Reserve
- Burra Swimming Pool
topics:
- infrastructure
- roads
- budget
- grants
- heritage
- community
- projects
- appointments
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1978-1993-bcs-cn
---

Burra Burra DC

The upgrading of Chapel Street is due to commence Monday 26 October.  The road will need to be closed to traffic from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m.  Signs will indicate required detours.  It is hoped to be able to reopen the road after work each day.  Stage one will involve Commercial Street to the bridge near Bridge Street.  Sealing is expected to take place in December.

Plans for the Best Place Creek Reserve Redevelopment are on display at the Council Office.

Council is anticipating a balanced budget at 30 June 1988.  It presently has $388,000 invested with the ANZ Bank in a high interest account.  In this financial year Council has purchased the Township of Hampton for $18,000 and has undertaken extensive roadworks in the rural areas and drainage work in Chapel Street, Burra.  The $200,000 Highways Grant for the Ludgvan Street Deviation has seen work commence and the first stage will be completed by Christmas.

Construction and sealing of Chapel Street and West Street is included from a Tourist Road Grant of $15,500.

The Grants Commission has awarded $204,700 for 1987-88 and Council had budgeted to receive $180,000.

The $104,137 CEP Project at the Burra Mine Site began on 23 September and will see the installation of walking trails, fences and excavation tunnels and shaft.  The supervising archaeologist is Mr David Bannear.

Tenders have been advertised for a bluestone toilet block on Burra Creek.  [Pickett Reserve]

Donations from the Burra Yacht Club and the Copper Festival Committee aided this project.

Burra Lions Club has contributed three sun shelters at the Burra Swimming Pool.

Cr Chris Reed has been appointed Chairman of the Burra Mine Management Committee.

Source publication: [1978 1993 Bcs Cn](/publications/1978-1993-bcs-cn/)
