---
title: Burra National Trust held its AGM last Tuesday at the Civic Centre.
type: records
slug: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_16172
url: /records/1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_16172/
record_id: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_16172
date: '1987-02-12'
date_display: null
volume: null
issue_number: null
page: Supplement
article_type: news
issue_reference: 1987-02-12, page Supplement
people_mentioned:
- Maureen Wright
- David Bannear
- Bryan Salter
- Donna Salter
- Colin Fidock
- Shirley Thamm
- Artley Josephs
- Parry Kostoglou
- Helen Stockman
- Barry Wright
- Sue Scholz
- James Hawker
- Sue Langford
places_mentioned:
- Bon Accord Mine Museum
- Waterworks Building
- Bon Accord
- Market Square Museum
- Malowen Lowarth
- State Conservation Centre
- St Mary’s Anglican Church, Burra
- Redruth Gaol
- White Hart Hotel site
- Aberdeen Croquet Club
- Bushman’s Home site
topics:
- museum
- heritage
- archaeology
- grant
- conservation
- community
- events
- awards
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1978-1993-bcs-cn
---

Burra National Trust held its AGM last Tuesday at the Civic Centre.

Chairperson, Maureen Wright, delivered her annual report, of which the main points were:

The Bon Accord Mine Museum has been the focus of much activity.

An application for a $20,000 CEP grant for maintenance work was successful.

New Fencing, tables and seats and paint for the Waterworks Building were enabled along with sundry smaller jobs.

Archaeologist David Bannear began work researching the history of the Bon Accord Mine site, partly funded by a Museum’s Accreditation Grant from the History Trust SA.

Bryan & Donna Salter have relinquished their lease on the Bon Accord and we thank them for their promotion of the site and from running excellent and popular guided tours.

Burra Mine Museum Committee will now run the Bon accord site on a four month trial.

Donna Salter will continue to run the Bon Accord Cottage for the National Trust.

Curator Colin Fidock was farewelled at the end of 1987 when he and his family moved to Adelaide.  Colin made an immense contribution to the branch, especially in getting up the displays at the Market Square Museum, the Bon Accord and Malowen Lowarth.

We have recently nominated Colin for the BHP Awards for the Pursuit of Excellence for Services to the Community.

During the year Registrar Curator Shirley Thamm has completed the cataloguing of all items held in storage by us and she is planning a special display of items for Heritage Week in April.

In December the large eighteenth century painting entitled Peter’s Vision, held in storage by our branch for many years, was cleaned at the State Conservation Centre and presented to St Mary’s Anglican Church, Burra to be hung there on permanent loan.

The sudden death in late January of Artley Josephs, our odd jobs man, was a shock to all and he will be sadly missed.

This year the spending of the Commonwealth Bank grant of $50,000 on the work at Redruth Gaol will soon begin.  This will include a new toilet block and car park as well as conservation work on the building.  The opening ceremony for the Gaol will be on the 24 May and promises to be a spectacular event, attended by the Governor and his wife, the Police Band, members of the Police Historical Society in period uniform and on horseback and the restored horse-drawn Black Maria.  The local Venturer Group is planning a retrial of Breaker Morant at about the same time.

Currently the branch is employing archaeologist Parry Kostoglou for rescue archaeological work at the White Hart Hotel site, the Aberdeen Croquet Club and the Bushman’s Home site.  The Highways Department has promised a partial reimbursement of the cost.

Office bearers elected for 1988: Chairman, Maureen Wright; Vice-Chairman (Management), Helen Stockman; Vice-Chairman (Works & Buildings), Barry Wright; Vice-Chairman (Fundraising & Catering), Sue Scholz; Secretary, James Hawker; Treasurer, Sue Langford and Curators, Shirley Thamm & Sue Langford.

Burra Printing Press donations have reached $2295.

Source publication: [1978 1993 Bcs Cn](/publications/1978-1993-bcs-cn/)
