---
title: Burra Manual Telephone Exchange Closes
type: records
slug: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_4908
url: /records/1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_4908/
record_id: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_4908
date: '1981-09-30'
date_display: null
volume: null
issue_number: null
page: Supplement
article_type: news
issue_reference: 1981-09-30, page Supplement
people_mentioned:
- Mrs E. Shattock
- Mrs T. Rawlins
- Coralie Field
- Joan Moreland
- Robyn Tschirn
- Susan Pittaway
- Geoff Deeble
places_mentioned:
- Burra
- Commercial Street
- Queen Street
- Town Hall
- Bridge Street
topics:
- infrastructure
- telecommunications
- history
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1978-1993-bcs-cn
---

Burra Manual Telephone Exchange Closes

At 10.45 a.m. on 30 September 1981 Mrs E. Shattock of Commercial Street ended her phone call to Mrs T. Rawlins of Queen Street and the era of the manually operated telephone exchange in Burra came to an end.  The normal number of telephonists on duty varied from three to five, but for the occasion all fourteen telephonists on staff were present.  At 10.55 a.m. the sign of disconnection took place as small metal shutters began to fall open all over the board to reveal the numbers of Burra’s 500 subscribers as Telecom technicians removed the connections.  Alarm bells rang and buzzers sounded, but instead of prompting the concern of telephonists this time they were greeted by cheers and mixed emotions.  Chocolates were handed round and a cake in the shape of the old switchboard was cut.  A formal end to the era was celebrated at a function in the Town Hall that evening when each lady was presented with a plaque made from timbers of the old switchboard.  There was a delay of a few hours before the automatic system cut in.  A few people are still experiencing a problem because they are not waiting for a dial tone before beginning to dial.  The delay can be two or three seconds.

[Photo of those on duty for the last shift – Coralie Field, Joan Moreland, Robyn Tschirn, Susan Pittaway and one of Telecom technician Geoff Deeble at the new Exchange in Bridge Street.]

Source publication: [1978 1993 Bcs Cn](/publications/1978-1993-bcs-cn/)
