---
title: Burra Burra DC / Community notices
type: records
slug: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_21216
url: /records/1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_21216/
record_id: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_21216
date: '1990-08-22'
date_display: null
volume: null
issue_number: null
page: Supplement
article_type: news
issue_reference: 1990-08-22, page Supplement
people_mentioned:
- Mr Tim Carter
- John Maidment
places_mentioned:
- Burra
- Burra North
- Burra Wheat Silos
- Royal Exchange Hotel
- Commercial Hotel
- Town Hall
topics:
- SES
- open day
- cycling
- event
- infrastructure
- development
- art
- fundraising
- club report
- community
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1978-1993-bcs-cn
---

22 August 1990

Burra Burra DC

SES open day will be held on 16 September at the newly completed headquarters located next to the Burra Wheat Silos at Burra North.

The Annual Burra Cycling Classic will be held on Saturday 15 September.  The limit riders will leave the Royal Exchange Hotel at noon and the backmarkers at 12.40 p.m.  The race is programmed to end at the Commercial Hotel between 3.45 and 4.00 p.m.  Council will be donating a copper trophy.  There will be a circuit event on Sunday morning.

The Burra Motor Inn.  Mr Tim Carter says that the first stage of the project will be ready by mid March 1991.

S.T. Gill Paintings.  Council has made a limited offer of ten sets of photographic reproductions of the four Council-owned S.T. Gill paintings.  They will only be sold as a set of four at a cost of $150 per set.

Burra Picnic Race Club: President John Maidment’s Report

We have been through another successful year; our fifth.  Much is owed to the efficiency and keenness of the committee. Sponsorship by the traders of the town has been vital.  The profit this year was $6,163.  Of this $2,100 went to the Flying Doctor, $1,500 to SES and $356 to the CFS for radios.  That left $2,207 which will be used on improvements to the track.  We hope to hold a country style dance at the Town Hall on the long weekend in October.  This will raise money to help organise the next race meeting.

Source publication: [1978 1993 Bcs Cn](/publications/1978-1993-bcs-cn/)
