---
title: Community news 3 April 1980
type: records
slug: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_2239
url: /records/1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_2239/
record_id: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_2239
date: '1980-04-03'
date_display: null
volume: null
issue_number: null
page: Supplement
article_type: community_notice
issue_reference: 1980-04-03, page Supplement
people_mentioned:
- Mrs Chris Heinrich
- Mr & Mrs Russell Nicholls
- Mr R. Jennison
- Don Lloyd
- Denny O’Connor
- Roger Schwarz
- Angie Berryman
places_mentioned:
- Burra
- Burra Burra DC
- Mt Bryan
- Adelaide
- Saddleworth
- Booborowie
- Hallett
topics:
- festival
- birth
- senior citizens
- tennis
- film
- school
- basketball
- fundraising
- community
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1978-1993-bcs-cn
---

3 April 1980

Burra Copper Festival 1980

A meeting on Tuesday night decided to proceed with a Copper Festival over the October long weekend.

Mrs Chris Heinrich was elected convenor and a committee was appointed.

It was decided that all proceeds would go to one project and nominations are called with a sub-committee appointed to decide on the recipient.

Burra Burra DC will loan the committee $1,000 for expenses.

Birth.  To Mr & Mrs Russell Nicholls last Friday, a daughter, their third.

Senior Citizens.  Mr R. Jennison chaired a meeting on 25 March which decided to form a Senior Citizens Group.  A steering committee was appointed.

Tennis.  Grand Finals of the Burra Tennis Association were held last Saturday.

A Grade	Burra Red led by Don Lloyd 12sets defeated Burra Gold 8 sets

B Grade	Spalding 11 sets defeated Burra Blue 9 sets

Juniors	Burra Gold 8 sets defeated Mt Bryan 4 sets

‘Breaker Morant’ Denny O’Connor will take a bus to Adelaide for the premier if enough people are interested.  (Fare $5 per head.)

BCS Parents & Friends’ Association at its last meeting approved the expenditure of $2,601.34 for a list of item for the school.  [The list is printed.]

Basketball Finals

Men’s Shield	Saddleworth Hawks 40 defeated Booborowie 29

Women’s Shield	Hallett 35 defeated Rural Youth 33

Best and Fairest for the Season

Men	Roger Schwarz (Booborowie)

Women	Angie Berryman (Rural Youth)

The Lions Club auction was an outstanding success with gross proceeds of $12,000.

Source publication: [1978 1993 Bcs Cn](/publications/1978-1993-bcs-cn/)
