---
title: 'The new Principal Roger Henderson:'
type: records
slug: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_5526
url: /records/1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_5526/
record_id: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_5526
date: '1987-02-12'
date_display: null
volume: null
issue_number: null
page: Supplement
article_type: community_notice
issue_reference: 1987-02-12, page Supplement
people_mentioned:
- Roger Henderson
- Margaret
- Travis
- Lisa
places_mentioned:
- Marion High School
- Sturt CAE
- Flinders University
- Hartley CAE
- South Australia
- NT
- Alice Springs
- Darwin
- Adelaide
- Burra
- Wattle Park Teachers College
- Salisbury Park
topics:
- education
- appointment
- community
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1978-1993-bcs-cn
---

The new Principal Roger Henderson:

Completed his schooling at Marion High School.

Graduated Sturt CAE.

Studied at Flinders University & Hartley CAE with special interests in Geography, History, English, Health Education and Social Studies.

Post graduate studies in Mathematics, Curriculum Development, Education Administration and Teacher Training.

Has taught in Primary and Secondary Schools in Sa & NT where he spent 5 years living in both Alice Springs and Darwin.

Winning a scholarship brought him back to Adelaide where he wrote a thesis on the mining industry in Burra.

Spent 6 years as Principal of Wattle Park Teachers College.

Last three years as Principal of an R-7 Primary School at Salisbury Park.

Committed to Community Education and involvement of the community in small committees managing school affairs.

Has encouraged the extensive use of school facilities by the community.

Has a strong interest in local government and community clubs.

A firm believer in parent education and education for life.

Married for 15 years to Margaret and they have two children, Travis (6) and Lisa (10).

He has a special interest in propagating native plants.

Has a keen interest in sports and fitness and plays hockey, squash and cricket and is keen to take up bowls.

Source publication: [1978 1993 Bcs Cn](/publications/1978-1993-bcs-cn/)
