---
title: Burra Burra DC. Supplementary Election for Burra Town Ward - Candidate Profiles
type: records
slug: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_6832
url: /records/1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_6832/
record_id: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_6832
date: '1982-10-28'
date_display: null
volume: null
issue_number: null
page: Supplement
article_type: news
issue_reference: 1982-10-28, page Supplement
people_mentioned:
- Henry C. Durling
- J.M. Hirschausen
- Stephen John Pike
- Helen R. Stockman
- Peter Stockman
places_mentioned:
- Burra
- BCS
topics:
- election
- local government
- community
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1978-1993-bcs-cn
---

28 October 1982

Burra Burra DC.  Supplementary Election for Burra Town Ward

Candidate Profiles

Henry C. Durling

I have been employed by local councils for the past 35 years and have obtained a wealth of experience and knowledge, which, if elected, I would put to good use for the people of Burra.

J.M. Hirschausen

Born in Burra and lived here all my life.

Have been president of sporting and service clubs and have been involved in many community activities.

Stephen John Pike

Having attended many Council meetings in the last twelve months I have observed no representative for the lower income group.  I feel it is necessary that someone represent this minority and as a pensioner I know the problems lower income earners face in Burra.

Helen R. Stockman

I am the wife of Peter Stockman; we have three sons all attending BCS.  I have a longstanding interest in local government and have attended many Council meetings as an observer, finding them extremely interesting.  Common sense and sound decision making are the important aspects of Council work.

I would promote the interests of Burra in terms of street sealing and community development, tourism etc. as well as taking an interest in the overall financial management of Council.

Source publication: [1978 1993 Bcs Cn](/publications/1978-1993-bcs-cn/)
