---
title: The Redruth Gaol Project will be opened by the Governor Sir Donald Dunstan
  & Lady Dunstan
type: records
slug: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_16612
url: /records/1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_16612/
record_id: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_16612
date: '1988-05-11'
date_display: null
volume: null
issue_number: null
page: Supplement
article_type: news
issue_reference: 1988-05-11, page Supplement
people_mentioned:
- Sir Donald Dunstan
- Lady Dunstan
- Ian Auhl
- David Bannear
- Douglas Alexander
places_mentioned:
- Redruth Gaol
- BCS
- Burra
- SA
- Adelaide
- Unicorn Brewery Cellars
topics:
- heritage
- event
- conservation
- tourism
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1978-1993-bcs-cn
---

11 May 1988

The Redruth Gaol Project will be opened by the Governor Sir Donald Dunstan & Lady Dunstan on Tuesday 24 May.  The Police Band, the mounted police and an old horse-drawn Black Maria and the Police Historical Society will make for a colourful ceremony.

The Commonwealth Bank has sponsored the project, which included the repair and repointing of stone walls, recapping of chimneys with slate, painting of all blocks and repairing of worn floorboards and the construction of car and bus parks and a toilet block for visitors.  The gaol was built in 1856 and was the first in SA outside metropolitan Adelaide.  It has been a gaol, a private residence, a girls’ reformatory and a derelict ruin.  Recently it achieved fame as the site for much of the filming of Breaker Morant.  In 1977 it was given to the custody of the National Trust.  The opening ceremony will be held in front of the gaol at 11 a.m. and the public is invited to attend, but attendance at the lunch to follow is by invitation only.  The entire population of BCS has been invited to dress in period costume and will attend the opening ceremony.  The public is also invited to dress in period costume, though this is not essential.

Bicentennial Day.  An illustration of children’s costumes is given and an address for the hire of the same is also provided.

The Burra Heritage Advisor’s position is almost a year old and the Heritage Advisor reports on the work. [Though without providing his name.  He was Douglas Alexander.]

He had found Burra delightful and unique from its setting to its lovely streetscapes, from large and significant buildings and mines to individual row cottages.

While most locals seem to recognise the town’s rich heritage, some seem to fear being caught in a time warp, unresponsive to present day needs and technology.

Heritage does not mean turning Burra into a museum town to be viewed through a display case.

At the recent ICOMOS conference it was acknowledged that conservation and tourism strategies should work together and that both can generate economic activity, employment and income.

Planning is needed to ensure that the town’s rich heritage is protected and one such project has been the Unicorn Brewery Cellars Conservation Study.  Ian Auhl has provided access to his research notes and publications on these fascinating structures.  David Bannear and friends have undertaken a preliminary archaeological survey and we have undertaken our own extensive architectural measured survey.  We are now well placed to produce a report.

Source publication: [1978 1993 Bcs Cn](/publications/1978-1993-bcs-cn/)
