---
title: Burra Civic Jubilee Ball
type: records
slug: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_12302
url: /records/1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_12302/
record_id: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_12302
date: '1986-03-06'
date_display: null
volume: null
issue_number: null
page: Supplement
article_type: community_notice
issue_reference: 1986-03-06, page Supplement
people_mentioned:
- Sir Donald Dunstan
- Lady Dunstan
- D. Rayfield
- Mr Womersley
- Mr J. Hawker
- Mr G. O’Connor
- Mrs M. Wright
places_mentioned:
- Burra
- Market Square
topics:
- event
- community
- heritage
- council
- meeting
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1978-1993-bcs-cn
---

6 March 1986

Burra Civic Jubilee Ball

His Excellency the Governor Sir Donald Dunstan and Lady Dunstan will be guests of honour for this event on Saturday 7 June.  People are encouraged to wear period costume, though this is not compulsory.  Details for suitable supper menus and decorations etc. from 150 years ago are being researched.

D. Rayfield, writes as Secretary of the Burra Preservation Society.

Last week’s article on the Market Square meeting did not reflect a clear picture of the events prior to or at the meeting.  Burra Burra DC at its February meeting nominated the Council personnel to attend.  It was Mr Womersley’s prerogative as chairman to determine how the meeting was structured.  Council Chairman Mr J. Hawker invited the Burra Preservation Organisation Chairman Mr G. O’Connor to attend, but had to withdraw the invitation when Council considered only those nominated in the Council minute could attend.  Mrs M. Wright of the National Trust and Mr G. O’Connor nevertheless presented themselves at the meeting.  Mr Womersley had a brief consultation with Mr Hawker and then allowed both to attend and participate fully.  We note that although Council has agreed to retain the existing curved kerb line, they do intend to close off the existing roadway, an action that very effectively destroys the 140-year-old character of Market Square.  This was not made clear in the last issue of Community News.


Source publication: [1978 1993 Bcs Cn](/publications/1978-1993-bcs-cn/)
