---
title: The Burra Heritage Advisor’s report
type: records
slug: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_16620
url: /records/1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_16620/
record_id: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_16620
date: '1988-05-11'
date_display: null
volume: null
issue_number: null
page: Supplement
article_type: news
issue_reference: 11 May 1988
people_mentioned:
- Douglas Alexander
- Ian Auhl
- David Bannear
places_mentioned:
- Burra
- Unicorn Brewery Cellars
- ICOMOS
topics:
- heritage
- conservation
- tourism
- architecture
- archaeology
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1978-1993-bcs-cn
---

The Burra Heritage Advisor’s position is almost a year old and the Heritage Advisor reports on the work. [Though without providing his name.  He was Douglas Alexander.]

He had found Burra delightful and unique from its setting to its lovely streetscapes, from large and significant buildings and mines to individual row cottages.

While most locals seem to recognise the town’s rich heritage, some seem to fear being caught in a time warp, unresponsive to present day needs and technology.

Heritage does not mean turning Burra into a museum town to be viewed through a display case.

At the recent ICOMOS conference it was acknowledged that conservation and tourism strategies should work together and that both can generate economic activity, employment and income.

Planning is needed to ensure that the town’s rich heritage is protected and one such project has been the Unicorn Brewery Cellars Conservation Study.  Ian Auhl has provided access to his research notes and publications on these fascinating structures.  David Bannear and friends have undertaken a preliminary archaeological survey and we have undertaken our own extensive architectural measured survey.  We are now well placed to produce a report.

As well as advising on heritage buildings I am currently producing a series of information sheets intended to assist people with colour schemes, repairs, trouble-shooting, verandahs, signs, additions, alterations etc.

As an architect I am well aware of the dilemmas posed by conservation work and realise that frustration and delay is an inevitable part of a careful, well considered process.

New buildings should not aim to recreate old buildings, but should be sympathetic to the scale and streetscapes of Burra.

Source publication: [1978 1993 Bcs Cn](/publications/1978-1993-bcs-cn/)
