---
title: BCS Student Boarding
type: records
slug: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_24936
url: /records/1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_24936/
record_id: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_24936
date: '1990-10-17'
date_display: null
volume: null
issue_number: null
page: Supplement
article_type: community_notice
issue_reference: 1990-10-17, page Supplement
people_mentioned:
- School Council
- Hospital Board
- H.B. Quinn
- Isolated Children & Parents’ Organisation (ICPA)
places_mentioned:
- Burra Community School
- Burra Hospital
- Burra
topics:
- school
- boarding
- community
- hospital
- funding
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1978-1993-bcs-cn
---

BCS Student Boarding

The School Council has formed a sub-committee to be known as the Burra Community School Boarding Facility Committee to establish a student hostel facility in the building formerly used at the Burra Hospital as nurses’ accommodation.  The Hospital Board has agreed to allow this use.  The Burra Burra DC will be asked to submit an application to DEET for funding to refurbish the building and we believe Council will give support to this scheme.  The Hospital Board, School Council and members of the District Council recognise the need for such a facility, without which there will be no student boarding facility for families in remote and isolated areas to the north and east.  The hospital will assist with meals and laundry service.  The committee will also be seeking community support and the Isolated Children & Parents’ Organisation (ICPA) has agreed to donate $1,000.  The school will benefit by increasing student numbers, which brings in more staff and creates the chance for more curriculum choice.  It will make use of an otherwise unused facility and will make further links between Burra and the remote pastoral community.

[H.B. Quinn as Chairman of the Hospital Board added an endorsement of the proposal.]

Source publication: [1978 1993 Bcs Cn](/publications/1978-1993-bcs-cn/)
