---
title: Dianne Day is Burra’s Australia Day Senior Citizen of the Year.
type: records
slug: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_15888
url: /records/1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_15888/
record_id: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_15888
date: '1987-02-12'
date_display: null
volume: null
issue_number: null
page: Supplement
article_type: community_notice
issue_reference: 1987-02-12, page Supplement
people_mentioned:
- Dianne Day
- Cheryl Boswell
- Cheryl Boswell (nee Finch)
places_mentioned:
- Burra
- Broken Hill
topics:
- award
- community
- sport
- education
- volunteer
- church
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1978-1993-bcs-cn
---

Dianne Day is Burra’s Australia Day Senior Citizen of the Year.

She came to Burra as a new teacher in 1965 and immediately joined the sporting clubs and life of the town.  At school she started athletics and founded a tradition for which Burra has become famous.  She coached Cheryl Boswell (nee Finch) who went on to represent Australia.  She is a foundation member of the Little Athletics Club.  She is still a regular relief teacher and as a parent takes a great interest in the school and serves regularly on the school canteen.  In netball she has held office on many occasions and is the club’s only Life Member.  She has also held many Association positions.  She has been a top umpire for many years.  Dianne is Regional Vice-President of the Adelaide Children’s Hospital Auxiliary and a Past President of the local branch.  She has been a voluntary typist for this newsletter since it started and has done ‘voluntary’ typing for many organisations and people in the town.  Dianne is an Elder in the Burra Uniting Church, a Sunday school teacher and editor of the local church paper.  She acted as trainer and mentor for the Burra Barrow Birds, seeing them reach Broken Hill.  She is also one of the Tennis Club’s few Life Members, having held many offices in the club.  Her main interest is now in promoting junior players.  Dianne is also one of the town’s top golfers, having been President and Captain and is the zone handicap manager.  At Burra Sports Complex Dianne was a foundation Member and for years was Treasurer and continues to be a hard working member of the Ladies’ Auxiliary.  She has also been a treasurer for the local Boy Scouts.

Source publication: [1978 1993 Bcs Cn](/publications/1978-1993-bcs-cn/)
