---
title: 10 August 1988
type: records
slug: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_17046
url: /records/1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_17046/
record_id: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_17046
date: '1988-08-10'
date_display: null
volume: null
issue_number: null
page: Supplement
article_type: community_notice
issue_reference: 10 August 1988
people_mentioned:
- Jenny & Denny O’Connor
- R.W. Secomb
- Trevor Wall
- Paul Wilson
- Jeff White
- Cynthia Robinson
- Di Day
- Des James
- Danny & Lea
places_mentioned:
- Hyatt Regency Hotel
- Adelaide
- Courthouse at Burra North
- Burra Sports Complex
- Redbanks Reserve
topics:
- award
- exhibition
- club
- fundraising
- sports
- entertainment
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1978-1993-bcs-cn
---

10 August 1988

Jenny & Denny O’Connor won the 1988 State Bank of SA Tourism Award for Tourism Services.  It was presented on Friday night at the Hyatt Regency Hotel in Adelaide.

SA Museum Life of the Past travelling educational exhibition will be on display at the Courthouse at Burra North on Monday 15 August and Monday 22 August.

Burra Community & Sports Club AGM Report from President R.W. Secomb.

It has been a relatively quiet year for expenditure.  We have built a new coach’s box on the oval for $2.216 and sealed the ‘new’ netball court with a Colour Court preparation for $3,008.  The Hanson Soldiers’ Memorial Hall Committee has generously loaned their piano to the Sports Club.  The Ladies Auxiliary has been busy with catering and raised over $7,000 above their own requirements and this has been transferred to our funds.  Trevor Wall has again done a great job as the bar manager and has handed over nearly $7,500 to the General Committee.  We have 250 sheep on Redbanks Reserve and have tailed approximately 250 lambs so this should return a worthwhile income.

Elected were: President, Paul Wilson; Vice-President, Jeff White; Secretary, Cynthia Robinson; Treasurer, Di Day and Administrator, Des James.

Danny & Lea [Country singers] will appear at Burra Sports Complex on Saturday 20 August.

Source publication: [1978 1993 Bcs Cn](/publications/1978-1993-bcs-cn/)
