---
title: 'BCS.  Staff Profile: David Maher'
type: records
slug: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_18176
url: /records/1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_18176/
record_id: 1978_1993_bcs_cn_content_18176
date: '1988-10-26'
date_display: null
volume: null
issue_number: null
page: Supplement
article_type: community_notice
issue_reference: 1988-10-26, page Supplement
people_mentioned:
- David Maher
- April
- Emma Butler
- Mandy Drew
- Karen Jennings
- Natalie Taylor
- Karenza Lycett
- Matthew Bailey
- Michael Klembt
- Rohan Wenzel
- Darren Thomas
- Philip Clode
- Eric Clode
- Stephen Hoskins
places_mentioned:
- BCS
- West Lakes H.S.
- Adelaide
- Riverton
- Kapunda
- Burra
- Eudunda
- Barmera
- Qantas
- QEH
topics:
- education
- staff profile
- drama
- sport
- interschool swimming
- camp
- training
- graduation
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 1978-1993-bcs-cn
---

BCS.  Staff Profile: David Maher

As a result of the compulsory country service lottery I have won a four year trip to BCS.  Prior to this I spent six years at West Lakes H.S. as an English teacher and Drama Specialist.  While there I was involved in numerous successful drama productions and a 1988 entry into the SA FM State Bank Rock ’N’ Roll Eisteddfod and hope to repeat those successes at BCS.  I have also worked as an entertainer and freelance commercial artist.  April and I thank all who have made settling in easier for the two of us.

Interschool Swimming Carnival at Adelaide last Wednesday saw a busload of competitors from BCS.  Best performances included:

Emma Butler: first and third in two backstroke events and in the U15 relay team that came second.

Mandy Drew gained one second and one third place.

Karen Jennings, Mandy Drew, Natalie Taylor and Karenza Lycett won the freestyle relay.

Un the U13 boys’ relay the team of Matthew Bailey, Michael Klembt, Rohan Wenzel and Darren Thomas came first.

With twelve schools competing, Burra Girls were placed 4th and Burra Boys were placed 5th.

At the Riverton interschool carnival a week earlier, Kapunda 188 defeated Burra 161 with Eudunda 128 in third place.  [First place getters are listed.]

BCS Year 8 students are spending this week at a camp in Barmera.

Philip Clode, son of Eric Clode, begins training with Qantas next week as a pilot.

Stephen Hoskins graduated at QEH as a registered nurse.

Source publication: [1978 1993 Bcs Cn](/publications/1978-1993-bcs-cn/)
