---
title: Mt Bryan Wind Turbine Concerns
type: records
slug: 2006_13_midnorthbroadcaster_content_11571
url: /records/2006_13_midnorthbroadcaster_content_11571/
record_id: 2006_13_midnorthbroadcaster_content_11571
date: '2011-01-19'
date_display: null
volume: null
issue_number: '968'
page: 1 & 3
article_type: news
issue_reference: Edition No. 968, 19 Jan. 2011, pages 1 & 3
people_mentioned:
- Dr Sarah Laurie
- Petria Ladgrove
- Waubra Foundation
places_mentioned:
- Mt Bryan
- Wales
- Gippsland
- Portland
- Ballarat
- Queensland
- Waterloo-Mt Bryan-Hallett
- SA
topics:
- health
- wind turbines
- environment
- community
source_document: 1985-87_Northern__Argus.md
publication_slug: 2006-13-midnorthbroadcaster
---

Mt Bryan Wind Turbine Concerns

A meeting at Mt Bryan hall last month discussed possible health effects from wind turbines.  Dr Sarah Laurie, Medical Director Waubra Foundation was the guest speaker, accompanied by ABC Radio producer Petria Ladgrove.  Dr Laurie is a trained rural General Practitioner.  She said that like most people she had started out oblivious to any adverse health effects due to wind turbines.  Her attention had been drawn to medical reports from Wales of adverse effects following a wind farm development.  She subsequently established the Waubra Foundation, named after a small town northwest of Ballarat where health the problems first became public.  She said the problems have now been well described from sites around the world and cited various medical researchers.  Some of the illnesses have forced people from their land.  This has happened in the Gippsland area, the Portland region, around Ballarat, in Queensland and now reports are coming in from the Waterloo-Mt Bryan-Hallett developments in SA.  The problems have their origins in the low frequency noise generated by the plants, which can be shown to affect blood pressure and the inner ear.  The sound is generally below the audible range for most people.

Source publication: [2006 13 Midnorthbroadcaster](/publications/2006-13-midnorthbroadcaster/)
